Current to May 26, 2026
Published by the Minister of Justice at the following address:
http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca
CONSOLIDATION
United Nations Act
R.S.C., 1985, c. U-2
OFFICIAL STATUS
OF CONSOLIDATIONS
Subsections 31(1) and (2) of the Legislation Revision and
Consolidation Act, in force on June 1, 2009, provide as
follows:
Published consolidation is evidence
31 (1) Every copy of a consolidated statute or consolidated
regulation published by the Minister under this Act in either
print or electronic form is evidence of that statute or regulation and of its contents and every copy purporting to be published by the Minister is deemed to be so published, unless
the contrary is shown.
Inconsistencies in Acts
(2) In the event of an inconsistency between a consolidated
statute published by the Minister under this Act and the original statute or a subsequent amendment as certified by the
Clerk of the Parliaments under the Publication of Statutes
Act, the original statute or amendment prevails to the extent
of the inconsistency.
LAYOUT
The notes that appeared in the left or right margins are
now in boldface text directly above the provisions to
which they relate. They form no part of the enactment,
but are inserted for convenience of reference only.
NOTE
This consolidation is current to May 26, 2026. Any
amendments that were not in force as of May 26, 2026
are set out at the end of this document under the heading
“Amendments Not in Force”.
TABLE OF PROVISIONS
An Act respecting Article 41 of the Charter of the
United Nations
Short Title
1
Short title
Orders and Regulations of the
Governor in Council
2
Application of Security Council decisions
3
Offence and punishment
4
Tabling in Parliament
SCHEDULE
R.S.C., 1985, c. U-2
An Act respecting Article 41 of the Charter
of the United Nations
Short Title
Short title
1 This Act may be cited as the United Nations Act.
R.S., c. U-3, s. 1.
Orders and Regulations of the
Governor in Council
Application of Security Council decisions
2 When, in pursuance of Article 41 of the Charter of the
United Nations, set out in the schedule, the Security
Council of the United Nations decides on a measure to be
employed to give effect to any of its decisions and calls on
Canada to apply the measure, the Governor in Council
may make such orders and regulations as appear to him
to be necessary or expedient for enabling the measure to
be effectively applied.
R.S., c. U-3, s. 2.
Offence and punishment
3 (1) Any person who contravenes an order or regulation made under this Act is guilty of an offence and liable
(a) on summary conviction, to a fine of not more
than $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term of not
more than one year, or to both; or
(b) on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for
a term of not more than 10 years.
Forfeiture
(2) Any property dealt with contrary to any order or regulation made under this Act may be seized and detained
and is liable to forfeiture at the instance of the Minister
of Justice, on proceedings in the Federal Court, or in any
superior court, and any such court may make rules
Orders and Regulations of the Governor in Council
Sections 3-4
governing the procedure on any proceedings taken before
the court or a judge thereof under this section.
R.S., 1985, c. U-2, s. 3; 2001, c. 41, s. 112.
Tabling in Parliament
4 (1) Every order and regulation made under this Act
shall be laid before Parliament forthwith after it has been
made or, if Parliament is not then sitting, forthwith after
the commencement of the next ensuing session.
Resolution
(2) If both the Senate and House of Commons within the
period of forty days, beginning with the day on which an
order or regulation is laid before Parliament pursuant to
subsection (1) and excluding any time during which Parliament is dissolved or prorogued or during which both
the Senate and House of Commons are adjourned for
more than four days, resolve that it be annulled, it ceases
to have effect, but without prejudice to its previous operation or anything duly done or suffered thereunder or
any offence committed or any punishment incurred.
R.S., c. U-3, s. 4; 1976-77, c. 28, s. 49(F).
United Nations
SCHEDULE
SCHEDULE
(Section 2)
ARTICLE 41 — The Security Council may decide what measures not involving the use of armed force are to be employed
to give effect to its decisions, and it may call upon the Members of the United Nations to apply such measures. These
may include complete or partial interruption of economic relations and of rail, sea, air, postal, telegraphic, radio, and other means of communication, and the severance of diplomatic
relations.
R.S., c. U-3, Sch.
