Current to May 26, 2026
Last amended on June 22, 2023
Published by the Minister of Justice at the following address:
http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca
CONSOLIDATION
Justice for Victims of Corrupt
Foreign Officials Act (Sergei
Magnitsky Law)
S.C. 2017, c. 21
OFFICIAL STATUS
OF CONSOLIDATIONS
Subsections 31(1) and (2) of the Legislation Revision and
Consolidation Act, in force on June 1, 2009, provide as
follows:
Published consolidation is evidence
31 (1) Every copy of a consolidated statute or consolidated
regulation published by the Minister under this Act in either
print or electronic form is evidence of that statute or regulation and of its contents and every copy purporting to be published by the Minister is deemed to be so published, unless
the contrary is shown.
Inconsistencies in Acts
(2) In the event of an inconsistency between a consolidated
statute published by the Minister under this Act and the original statute or a subsequent amendment as certified by the
Clerk of the Parliaments under the Publication of Statutes
Act, the original statute or amendment prevails to the extent
of the inconsistency.
LAYOUT
The notes that appeared in the left or right margins are
now in boldface text directly above the provisions to
which they relate. They form no part of the enactment,
but are inserted for convenience of reference only.
NOTE
This consolidation is current to May 26, 2026. The last
amendments came into force on June 22, 2023. Any
amendments that were not in force as of May 26, 2026
are set out at the end of this document under the heading
“Amendments Not in Force”.
TABLE OF PROVISIONS
An Act to provide for the taking of restrictive
measures in respect of foreign nationals responsible
for gross violations of internationally recognized
human rights and to make related amendments to
the Special Economic Measures Act and the
Immigration and Refugee Protection Act
Short Title
1
Short Title
Interpretation
2
Definitions
2.01
Deemed ownership
Minister
2.1
Minister
Her Majesty
3
Binding on Her Majesty
Orders and Regulations
4
Orders and Regulations
Forfeiture Orders
4.1
Definitions
4.2
Forfeiture
4.3
Not a Crown corporation
4.4
Payment out of Proceeds Account
Tabling in Parliament
5
Order or regulation
Duty to Determine
6
Determination
Disclosure
7
Duty to disclose — supervising and regulating agencies
Justice for Victims of Corrupt Foreign Officials (Sergei Magnitsky Law)
TABLE OF PROVISIONS
7.1
Sharing of information
7.2
RCMP
7.21
FINTRAC
7.3
Provision of information
Rights of Foreign Nationals Who are
the Subject of an Order or Regulation
8
Application
Application for a Certificate
9
Mistaken identity
10
Reasonable expenses
Offences
11
Offence and punishment
General
12
No civil liability
13
Ranking
13.1
Costs
13.2
Agreements
14
Proceedings not precluded
15
Regulations
Review and Report
16
Review
Related Amendments
Special Economic Measures Act
Immigration and Refugee Protection Act
S.C. 2017, c. 21
An Act to provide for the taking of
restrictive measures in respect of foreign
nationals responsible for gross violations of
internationally recognized human rights and
to make related amendments to the Special
Economic
Measures
Act
and
the
Immigration and Refugee Protection Act
[Assented to 18th October 2017]
Preamble
Whereas human rights and the rule of law are integral to international law and Canada has repeatedly
asserted its commitment to promoting international
justice and respect for human rights;
Whereas signatory States to international human
rights agreements have committed themselves to the
obligations and responsibilities set out in those
agreements;
Whereas Sergei Magnitsky, a Moscow lawyer who
uncovered the largest tax fraud in Russian history,
was detained without trial, tortured and consequently
died in a Moscow prison on November 16, 2009;
Whereas no thorough, independent and objective investigation has been conducted by Russian authorities into the detention, torture and death of Sergei
Magnitsky, nor have the individuals responsible been
brought to justice;
Whereas the unprecedented posthumous trial and
conviction of Sergei Magnitsky in Russia for the very
fraud he uncovered constitute a violation of the principles of fundamental justice and the rule of law;
Whereas legislation and motions adopted by legislative assemblies in the United States, the European
Parliament, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands,
An Act to provide for the taking of restrictive measures in respect of foreign nationals
responsible for gross violations of internationally recognized human rights ...
Italy, Poland and Canada have condemned the mistreatment of Sergei Magnitsky as “a violation of the
principles of fundamental justice and the rule of law”
and called for sanctions against any foreign nationals
responsible for violations of internationally recognized human rights in a foreign country when authorities in that country are unable or unwilling to conduct
a
thorough,
independent
and
objective
investigation of the violations;
Whereas the Litvinenko Inquiry report, presented to
the United Kingdom Parliament on January 21, 2016,
found that two Russian agents, Andrei Lugovoi and
Dmitry Kovtun, were responsible for the assassination of Alexander Litvinenko and that there was a
“strong possibility” that they were acting on behalf
of the Russian Federal Security Service;
Whereas
Russian
opposition
politician
Boris
Nemtsov was assassinated outside the Kremlin on
February 27, 2015, and to this day no thorough, independent and objective investigation has been conducted by Russian authorities;
Whereas the Senate, on May 5, 2015, and the House
of Commons, on March 25, 2015, by unanimous resolutions called upon the Government of Canada to explore and encourage sanctions against any foreign
nationals responsible for the detention, torture and
death of Sergei Magnitsky and to explore sanctions
as appropriate against any foreign nationals responsible for violations of internationally recognized human rights in a foreign country, when authorities in
that country are unable or unwilling to conduct a
thorough, independent and objective investigation of
the violations;
Whereas member of the Ukrainian Parliament Lieutenant Nadiya Savchenko and other Ukrainians were
illegally convicted and imprisoned in Russia in violation of international norms and fundamental justice;
Whereas the Special Economic Measures Act authorizes the Government of Canada to take economic
measures against a foreign state or national for the
purpose of implementing a decision, resolution or
recommendation of an international organization or
association of states, or in cases of a grave breach of
international peace and security that resulted or is
likely to result in a serious international crisis;
Whereas adding gross violations of internationally
recognized human rights as a ground on which sanctions may be imposed against foreign states and nationals would further Canada’s support for human
rights and advance its responsibility to protect activists who fight for human rights;
Whereas it is important to acknowledge and remember Sergei Magnitsky’s sacrifice, as well as the
Short Title
Sections 1-2
sacrifice of other victims of gross violations of internationally recognized human rights;
And whereas all violators of internationally recognized human rights should be treated and sanctioned
equally throughout the world,
Now, therefore, Her Majesty, by and with the advice
and consent of the Senate and House of Commons of
Canada, enacts as follows:
Short Title
Short Title
1 This Act may be cited as the Justice for Victims of Corrupt Foreign Officials Act (Sergei Magnitsky Law).
Interpretation
Definitions
2 The following definitions apply in this Act.
Canadian means a person who is a citizen within the
meaning of the Citizenship Act or a corporation incorporated or continued by or under the laws of Canada or of a
province. (Canadien)
entity means a corporation, trust, partnership, fund, an
unincorporated association or organization or a foreign
state. (entité)
foreign national means an individual who is not
(a) a Canadian citizen; or
(b) a permanent resident under the Immigration and
Refugee Protection Act. (étranger)
Interpretation
Sections 2-2.01
foreign public official has the same meaning as in section 2 of the Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act.
(agent public étranger)
foreign state means a country other than Canada, and
includes
(a) any of its political subdivisions;
(b) its government and any of its departments, or the
government or any department of any of its political
subdivisions; and
(c) any of its agencies or any agency of any of its political subdivisions. (État étranger)
Minister [Repealed, 2022, c. 10, s. 444]
person means an individual or an entity. (personne)
prescribed means prescribed by regulation. (version
anglaise seulement)
property means any type of property, whether real or
personal or immovable or movable, or tangible or intangible or corporeal or incorporeal, and includes money,
funds, currency, digital assets and virtual currency.
(bien)
2017, c. 21, s. 2; 2022, c. 10, s. 444.
Deemed ownership
2.01 (1) If a foreign national controls an entity other
than a foreign state, any property that is owned — or that
is held or controlled, directly or indirectly — by the entity
is deemed to be owned by that foreign national.
Criteria
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), a foreign national
controls an entity, directly or indirectly, if any of the following criteria are met:
(a) the foreign national holds, directly or indirectly,
50% or more of the shares or ownership interests in
the entity or 50% or more of the voting rights in the
entity;
(b) the foreign national is able, directly or indirectly,
to change the composition or powers of the entity’s
board of directors; or
(c) it is reasonable to conclude, having regard to all
the circumstances, that the foreign national is able, directly or indirectly and through any means, to direct
the entity’s activities.
2023, c. 26, s. 261.
Minister
Sections 2.1-4
Minister
Minister
2.1 (1) Subject to subsection (2), the Minister of Foreign
Affairs is responsible for the administration and enforcement of this Act.
Designation
(2) The Governor in Council may, by order, designate
one or more Ministers of the Crown to discharge any responsibilities that the Governor in Council may specify
with respect to the administration or enforcement of any
of the provisions of this Act or any order or regulations
made under this Act.
2022, c. 10, s. 445.
Her Majesty
Binding on Her Majesty
3 This Act is binding on Her Majesty in right of Canada
or a province.
Orders and Regulations
Orders and Regulations
4 (1) The Governor in Council may, if the Governor in
Council is of the opinion that any of the circumstances
described in subsection (2) has occurred,
(a) make any orders or regulations with respect to the
restriction or prohibition of any of the activities referred to in subsection (3) in relation to a foreign national that the Governor in Council considers necessary; and
(b) by order, cause to be seized or restrained in the
manner set out in the order any property situated in
Canada that is owned — or that is held or controlled,
directly or indirectly — by a foreign national who is
identified in an order or regulation made under paragraph (1)(a).
Circumstances
(2) The circumstances referred to in subsection (1) are
the following:
(a) a foreign national is responsible for, or complicit
in, extrajudicial killings, torture or other gross violations of internationally recognized human rights committed against individuals in any foreign state who
seek
Orders and Regulations
Section 4
(i) to expose illegal activity carried out by foreign
public officials, or
(ii) to obtain, exercise, defend or promote internationally recognized human rights and freedoms,
such as freedom of conscience, religion, thought,
belief, opinion, expression, peaceful assembly and
association, and the right to a fair trial and democratic elections;
(b) a foreign national acts as an agent of or on behalf
of a foreign state in a matter relating to an activity described in paragraph (a);
(c) a foreign national, who is a foreign public official
or an associate of such an official, is responsible for or
complicit in ordering, controlling or otherwise directing acts of corruption — including bribery, the misappropriation of private or public assets for personal
gain, the transfer of the proceeds of corruption to foreign states or any act of corruption related to expropriation, government contracts or the extraction of
natural resources — which amount to acts of significant corruption when taking into consideration,
among other things, their impact, the amounts involved, the foreign national’s influence or position of
authority or the complicity of the government of the
foreign state in question in the acts; or
(d) a foreign national has materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material or technological
support for, or goods or services in support of, an activity described in paragraph (c).
Restricted or prohibited activities
(3) Orders and regulations may be made under paragraph (1)(a) with respect to the restriction or prohibition
of any of the following activities, whether carried out in
or outside Canada:
(a) the dealing, directly or indirectly, by any person in
Canada or Canadian outside Canada in any property,
wherever situated, of the foreign national;
(b) the entering into or facilitating, directly or indirectly, by any person in Canada or Canadian outside
Canada, of any financial transaction related to a dealing referred to in paragraph (a); and
(c) the provision by any person in Canada or Canadian outside Canada of financial services or any other
services to, for the benefit of or on the direction or order of the foreign national;
(d) the acquisition by any person in Canada or Canadian outside Canada of financial services or any other
Orders and Regulations
Sections 4-4.1
services for the benefit of or on the direction or order
of the foreign national; and
(e) the making available by any person in Canada or
Canadian outside Canada of any property, wherever
situated, to the foreign national or to a person acting
on behalf of the foreign national.
Order authorizing Minister
(4) The Governor in Council may, by order, authorize the
Minister to
(a) issue to any person in Canada or Canadian outside
Canada a permit to carry out a specified activity or
transaction, or class of activity or transaction, that is
restricted or prohibited under this Act or any order or
regulations made under this Act; or
(b) issue a general permit allowing any person in
Canada or Canadian outside Canada to carry out a
class of activity or transaction that is restricted or prohibited under this Act or any order or regulations
made under this Act.
Ministerial permit
(5) The Minister may issue a permit or general permit,
subject to any terms and conditions that are, in the opinion of the Minister, consistent with this Act and any order or regulations made under this Act.
Revocation, etc.
(6) The Minister may amend, suspend, revoke or reinstate any permit or general permit issued by the Minister.
2017, c. 21, s. 4; 2022, c. 10, s. 446; 2023, c. 26, s. 262.
Forfeiture Orders
Definitions
4.1 The following definitions apply in sections 4.2 to 4.4.
judge means a judge of a superior court of the province
where property described in an order made under paragraph 4(1)(b) is situated. (juge)
Forfeiture Orders
Sections 4.1-4.2
Minister means the Minister responsible under section
2.1 for the administration of an order made under paragraph 4(1)(b). (ministre)
2022, c. 10, s. 447.
Forfeiture
4.2 (1) On application by the Minister, a judge must order that the property that is the subject of the application
be forfeited to Her Majesty in right of Canada if the judge
determines, based on the evidence presented, that the
property
(a) is described in an order made under paragraph
4(1)(b); and
(b) is owned by the foreign national referred to in that
order or is held or controlled, directly or indirectly, by
that foreign national.
Notice
(2) Before making the order in relation to the property,
the court must require notice to be given to any person
who, in the court’s opinion, appears to have an interest in
or right to the property, and the court may hear any such
person.
Manner of giving notice
(3) The notice must
(a) be given in the manner that the court directs or
that may be specified in the rules of the court;
(b) specify the period that the court considers reasonable or that may be set out in the rules of the court
during which a person may, before the order in relation to the property is made, make an application to
the court asserting their interest in or right to the
property; and
(c) set out a description of the property.
Application by person
(4) Any person — other than a foreign national described
in any of paragraphs 4(2)(a) to (d) — who claims an interest in or right to property that is forfeited to Her Majesty
under subsection (1) may, within 30 days after the day on
which the property is forfeited, apply in writing to a
judge for an order declaring that their interest or right is
not affected by the forfeiture, declaring the nature and
extent of the interest or right and directing the Minister
to pay to the person an amount equal to the value of their
interest or right.
2022, c. 10, s. 447.
Forfeiture Orders
Sections 4.3-6
Not a Crown corporation
4.3 If the property that is the subject of a forfeiture order consists of all of the shares of a corporation, the corporation is deemed not to be a Crown corporation as defined in subsection 83(1) of the Financial Administration
Act.
2022, c. 10, s. 447.
Payment out of Proceeds Account
4.4 After consulting with the Minister of Finance and
the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister may — at the
times and in the manner, and on any terms and conditions, that the Minister considers appropriate — pay out
of the Proceeds Account, as defined in section 2 of the
Seized Property Management Act, amounts not exceeding the net proceeds from the disposition of property forfeited under section 4.2, but only to compensate victims
of the circumstances described in subsection 4(2).
2022, c. 10, s. 447.
Tabling in Parliament
Order or regulation
5 A copy of each order or regulation made under paragraph 4(1)(a) must be tabled in each House of Parliament
within 15 days after it is made. It may be sent to the Clerk
of the House if the House is not sitting.
2017, c. 21, s. 5; 2022, c. 10, s. 447.
Duty to Determine
Determination
6 Each of the following entities must determine on a
continuing basis whether it is in possession or control of
property that it has reason to believe is the property of a
foreign national who is the subject of an order or regulation made under section 4:
(a) authorized foreign banks, as defined in section 2 of
the Bank Act, in respect of their business in Canada or
banks to which that Act applies;
(b) cooperative credit societies, savings and credit
unions and caisses populaires regulated by a provincial Act and associations regulated by the Cooperative
Credit Associations Act;
(c) foreign companies, as defined in subsection 2(1) of
the Insurance Companies Act, in respect of their insurance business in Canada;
Duty to Determine
Sections 6-7
(d) companies, provincial companies and societies, as
those terms are defined in subsection 2(1) of the Insurance Companies Act;
(e) fraternal benefit societies regulated by a provincial
Act in respect of their insurance activities and insurance companies and other entities engaged in the
business of insuring risks that are regulated by a
provincial Act;
(f) companies to which the Trust and Loan Companies Act applies;
(g) trust companies regulated by a provincial Act;
(h) loan companies regulated by a provincial Act;
(i) entities that engage in any activity described in
paragraph 5(h) of the Proceeds of Crime (Money
Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act if the activity involves the opening of an account for a client;
(j) entities authorized under provincial legislation to
engage in the business of dealing in securities or to
provide portfolio management or investment counselling services; and
(k) other entities of a prescribed class of entities.
Disclosure
Duty to disclose — supervising and regulating
agencies
7 (1) If it determines that it is in possession or control of
any property referred to in section 6, an entity referred to
in that section must disclose without delay, and once every three months after that, to the principal agency or
body that supervises or regulates it under federal or
provincial law the fact that it is in possession or control
of the property, the number of persons or dealings involved and the total value of the property.
Duty to disclose — RCMP or CSIS
(2) Every person in Canada and every Canadian outside
Canada must disclose without delay to the Commissioner
of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police or the Director of
the Canadian Security Intelligence Service
(a) that they have reason to believe that property in
their possession or control is owned, held or controlled by or on behalf of a foreign national who is the
Disclosure
Sections 7-7.1
subject of an order or regulation made under section
4; and
(b) any information about a transaction or proposed
transaction in respect of property referred to in paragraph (a).
Immunity
(3) No proceedings under this Act and no civil proceedings lie against a person for a disclosure made in good
faith under subsection (1) or (2).
2017, c. 21, s. 7; 2021, c. 23, s. 158.
Sharing of information
7.1 The following persons may assist the Minister in
matters relating to the making, administration or enforcement of an order or regulation referred to in subsection 4(1) and, for that purpose, may collect information
from and disclose information to each other:
(a) the Minister of Foreign Affairs;
(b) the Minister of Finance;
(c) the Minister of Public Works and Government
Services;
(d) the Minister of Public Safety and Emergency Preparedness;
(d.1) the Minister of Transport;
(d.2) the Minister of National Revenue;
(d.3) the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of
Canada;
(d.4) the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration;
(e) the Director of the Canadian Security Intelligence
Service;
(f) the Chief of the Communications Security Establishment;
(g) the President of the Canada Border Services Agency; and
(h) the Superintendent of Financial Institutions.
2022, c. 10, s. 448; 2023, c. 26, s. 263.
Disclosure
Sections 7.2-8
RCMP
7.2 (1) The Commissioner of the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police may assist the Minister in matters related to the making of an order under paragraph 4(1)(b),
the seizure or restraint of any property that is the subject
of such an order or the making of an application for forfeiture of the property under section 4.2 and, for that
purpose, may collect information from and disclose information to the persons referred to in section 7.1.
For greater certainty
(2) For greater certainty, nothing in subsection (1) is to
be construed as affecting the powers of a peace officer
that are conferred under legislation or the common law.
2022, c. 10, s. 448.
FINTRAC
7.21 The Minister may disclose to the Financial Transactions and Reports Analysis Centre of Canada any information that is relevant to the making, administration or
enforcement of an order or regulation referred to in subsection 4(1).
2023, c. 26, s. 264.
Provision of information
7.3 (1) The Minister of Foreign Affairs may require any
person to provide to that Minister any information that
that Minister believes on reasonable grounds is relevant
for the purposes of the making, administration or enforcement of an order or regulation referred to in subsection 4(1).
Duty to comply
(2) Every person who is required to provide information
under subsection (1) must comply with the requirement
within the time and in the form and manner specified by
that Minister.
2022, c. 10, s. 448.
Rights of Foreign Nationals
Who are the Subject of an Order
or Regulation
Application
8 (1) A foreign national who is the subject of an order or
regulation made under paragraph 4(1)(a) may apply in
writing to the Minister to cease being the subject of the
order or regulation.
Rights of Foreign Nationals Who are the Subject of an Order or Regulation
Sections 8-9
Property
(1.1) A foreign national whose property is the subject of
an order made under paragraph 4(1)(b) may, unless the
property is the subject of a forfeiture order, apply at any
time in writing to the Minister to request that the property cease being the subject of the order made under that
paragraph.
Reasonable grounds
(2) On receipt of the application, the Minister must decide whether there are reasonable grounds to recommend to the Governor in Council that the order or regulation be amended or repealed, as the case may be, so
that the applicant or their property ceases to be the subject of it.
Time limit
(3) The Minister must make a decision on the application within 90 days after the day on which the application
is received.
Notice if application rejected
(4) The Minister must give notice without delay to the
applicant of any decision to reject the application.
New application
(5) If there has been a material change in the applicant’s
circumstances since their last application under subsection (1) was submitted, he or she may submit another application.
2017, c. 21, s. 8; 2022, c. 10, s. 449.
Application for a Certificate
Mistaken identity
9 (1) Any person in Canada or any Canadian outside
Canada whose name is the same as or similar to the
name of a foreign national who is the subject of an order
or regulation made under section 4 may, if they claim not
to be that foreign national, apply to the Minister in writing for a certificate stating that they are not that foreign
national.
Determination by Minister
(2) Within 45 days after the day on which the application
was received, the Minister must,
(a) if he or she is satisfied that the applicant is not the
foreign national, issue the certificate to the applicant;
or
(b) if he or she is not so satisfied, provide a notice to
the applicant of his or her determination.
Application for a Certificate
Sections 10-13
Reasonable expenses
10 (1) A foreign national who is the subject of an order
or regulation made under section 4 may apply to the
Minister in writing for a certificate to exempt property
from the application of the order or regulation if the
property is necessary to meet the reasonable expenses of
the person and their dependents.
Certificate
(2) If the Minister determines that the property is necessary to meet the reasonable expenses of the applicant and
their dependents, the Minister must issue a certificate to
the applicant.
Time limit
(3) The Minister must make a decision on the application and, if applicable, issue a certificate within 90 days
after the day on which the application is received.
Offences
Offence and punishment
11 Every person who knowingly contravenes or fails to
comply with an order or regulation made under section 4
(a) is guilty of an indictable offence and is liable to imprisonment for a term of not more than five years; or
(b) is guilty of an offence punishable on summary
conviction and is liable to a fine of not more
than $25,000 or to imprisonment for a term of not
more than one year, or to both.
General
No civil liability
12 A person who, in relation to any property that is the
subject of an order or regulation made under section 4,
acts reasonably in taking, or omitting to take, measures
to comply with the order or regulation is not liable in any
civil action arising from having taken or omitted to take
the measures if they took all reasonable steps to satisfy
themselves that the property was property that is the
subject of the order or regulation.
Ranking
13 All secured and unsecured rights and interests in any
property that is the subject of an order made under paragraph 4(1)(b) that are held by a person are entitled to the
same ranking that they would have been entitled to had
the order not been made, unless
General
Sections 13-16
(a) the person is a foreign national described in any of
paragraphs 4(2)(a) to (d); or
(b) the property is forfeited to Her Majesty in right of
Canada under section 4.2.
2017, c. 21, s. 13; 2022, c. 10, s. 450.
Costs
13.1 Any costs incurred by or on behalf of Her Majesty
in right of Canada in relation to the seizure or restraint of
property under an order made under paragraph 4(1)(b)
or the disposal of property forfeited under section 4.2 are
the liability of the owner of the property and constitute a
debt due to Her Majesty in right of Canada that may be
recovered in any court of competent jurisdiction.
2022, c. 10, s. 450.
Agreements
13.2 The Minister of Foreign Affairs may, with the approval of the Governor in Council, enter into an agreement with a person respecting the use by the person, for
the compensation of victims of the circumstances described in subsection 4(2), of amounts that may be paid
out under section 4.4.
2022, c. 10, s. 450.
Proceedings not precluded
14 The making of an order or regulation under section 4
does not preclude the commencement of proceedings under any Act of Parliament other than this Act, or any civil
proceedings, in respect of any property that is the subject
of the order or regulation.
Regulations
15 The Governor in Council may make regulations for
carrying out the purposes and provisions of this Act.
Review and Report
Review
16 (1) Within five years after the day on which this section comes into force, a comprehensive review of the provisions and operation of this Act and of the Special Economic Measures Act must be undertaken by the
committees of the Senate and of the House of Commons
that are designated or established by each House for that
purpose.
Report
(2) The committees referred to in subsection (1) must,
within a year after a review is undertaken under that subsection or within any further time that may be authorized
Review and Report
Sections 16-18
by the Senate or the House of Commons, as the case may
be, submit a report on the review to Parliament, including a statement of any changes that the committees recommend.
Review
(3) Committees of the Senate and the House of Commons that are designated or established by each House
for that purpose may conduct a review concerning the
foreign nationals who are the subject of an order or regulation made under this Act and submit a report to the appropriate House together with their recommendations as
to whether those foreign nationals should remain, or no
longer be, the subject of that order or regulation.
Related Amendments
Special Economic Measures Act
17 [Amendments]
Immigration and Refugee Protection
Act
18 [Amendments]
