This text is meant purely as a documentation tool and has no legal effect. The Union's institutions do not assume any liability
for its contents. The authentic versions of the relevant acts, including their preambles, are those published in the Official
Journal of the European Union and available in EUR-Lex. Those official texts are directly accessible through the links
embedded in this document
►B DIRECTIVE (EU) 2015/849 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL
of 20 May 2015
on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing, amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council, and repealing Directive 2005/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and
Commission Directive 2006/70/EC
(Text with EEA relevance)
(OJ L 141, 5.6.2015, p. 73)
Amended by:
Official Journal
No page date
►M1 Directive (EU) 2018/843 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018
L 156 43 19.6.2018
►M2 Directive (EU) 2019/2177 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2019
L 334 155 27.12.2019
►M3 Regulation (EU) 2023/1113 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 May 2023
L 150 1 9.6.2023
►M4 Directive (EU) 2024/1640 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 May 2024
L 1640 1 19.6.2024
DIRECTIVE (EU) 2015/849 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT
AND OF THE COUNCIL
of 20 May 2015
on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing, amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council, and repealing Directive 2005/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Directive
2006/70/EC
(Text with EEA relevance)
CHAPTER I
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 1
Subject-matter, scope and definitions
Article 1
1. This Directive aims to prevent the use of the Union's financial system for the purposes of money laundering and terrorist financing.
2. Member States shall ensure that money laundering and terrorist financing are prohibited.
3. For the purposes of this Directive, the following conduct, when committed intentionally, shall be regarded as money laundering:
(a) the conversion or transfer of property, knowing that such property is
derived from criminal activity or from an act of participation in such activity, for the purpose of concealing or disguising the illicit origin of the property or of assisting any person who is involved in the commission of such an activity to evade the legal consequences of that person's action;
(b) the concealment or disguise of the true nature, source, location,
disposition, movement, rights with respect to, or ownership of, property, knowing that such property is derived from criminal activity or from an act of participation in such an activity;
(c) the acquisition, possession or use of property, knowing, at the time
of receipt, that such property was derived from criminal activity or from an act of participation in such an activity;
(d) participation in, association to commit, attempts to commit and
aiding, abetting, facilitating and counselling the commission of any of the actions referred to in points (a), (b) and (c).
4. Money laundering shall be regarded as such even where the activities which generated the property to be laundered were carried out in the territory of another Member State or in that of a third country.
5. For the purposes of this Directive, ‘terrorist financing’ means the provision or collection of funds, by any means, directly or indirectly, with the intention that they be used or in the knowledge that they are to be used, in full or in part, in order to carry out any of the offences within the meaning of Articles 1 to 4 of Council Framework Decision 2002/475/JHA ( 1 ).
6. Knowledge, intent or purpose required as an element of the activities referred to in paragraphs 3 and 5 may be inferred from objective factual circumstances.
Article 2
1. This Directive shall apply to the following obliged entities:
(1) credit institutions;
(2) financial institutions;
(3) the following natural or legal persons acting in the exercise of their
professional activities:
(a) auditors, external accountants and tax advisors, and any other
person that undertakes to provide, directly or by means of other persons to which that other person is related, material aid, assistance or advice on tax matters as principal business or professional activity;
(b) notaries and other independent legal professionals, where they
participate, whether by acting on behalf of and for their client in any financial or real estate transaction, or by assisting in the planning or carrying out of transactions for their client concerning the:
(i) buying and selling of real property or business entities;
(ii) managing of client money, securities or other assets;
(iii) opening or management of bank, savings or securities
accounts;
(iv) organisation of contributions necessary for the creation,
operation or management of companies;
( 1 ) Council Framework Decision 2002/475/JHA of 13 June 2002 on combating
terrorism (OJ L 164, 22.6.2002, p. 3).
(v) creation, operation or management of trusts, companies,
foundations, or similar structures;
(c) trust or company service providers not already covered under
point (a) or (b);
(d) estate agents including when acting as intermediaries in the
letting of immovable property, but only in relation to trans­ actions for which the monthly rent amounts to EUR 10 000 or more;
(e) other persons trading in goods to the extent that payments are
made or received in cash in an amount of EUR 10 000 or more, whether the transaction is carried out in a single operation or in several operations which appear to be linked;
(f) providers of gambling services;
▼M3 __________
(i) persons trading or acting as intermediaries in the trade of works
of art, including when this is carried out by art galleries and auction houses, where the value of the transaction or a series of linked transactions amounts to EUR 10 000 or more;
(j) persons storing, trading or acting as intermediaries in the trade
of works of art when this is carried out by free ports, where the value of the transaction or a series of linked transactions amounts to EUR 10 000 or more.
2. With the exception of casinos, and following an appropriate risk assessment, Member States may decide to exempt, in full or in part, providers of certain gambling services from national provisions trans­ posing this Directive on the basis of the proven low risk posed by the nature and, where appropriate, the scale of operations of such services.
Among the factors considered in their risk assessments, Member States shall assess the degree of vulnerability of the applicable transactions, including with respect to the payment methods used.
In their risk assessments, Member States shall indicate how they have taken into account any relevant findings in the reports issued by the Commission pursuant to Article 6.
Any decision taken by a Member State pursuant to the first subpara­ graph shall be notified to the Commission, together with a justification based on the specific risk assessment. The Commission shall communicate that decision to the other Member States.
3. Member States may decide that persons that engage in a financial activity on an occasional or very limited basis where there is little risk of money laundering or terrorist financing do not fall within the scope of this Directive, provided that all of the following criteria are met:
(a) the financial activity is limited in absolute terms;
(b) the financial activity is limited on a transaction basis;
(c) the financial activity is not the main activity of such persons;
(d) the financial activity is ancillary and directly related to the main
activity of such persons;
(e) the main activity of such persons is not an activity referred to in
points (a) to (d) or point (f) of paragraph 1(3);
(f) the financial activity is provided only to the customers of the main
activity of such persons and is not generally offered to the public.
The first subparagraph shall not apply to persons engaged in the activity of money remittance as defined in point (13) of Article 4 of Directive 2007/64/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council ( 1 ).
4. For the purposes of point (a) of paragraph 3, Member States shall require that the total turnover of the financial activity does not exceed a threshold which must be sufficiently low. That threshold shall be estab­ lished at national level, depending on the type of financial activity.
5. For the purposes of point (b) of paragraph 3, Member States shall apply a maximum threshold per customer and per single transaction, whether the transaction is carried out in a single operation or in several operations which appear to be linked. That maximum threshold shall be established at national level, depending on the type of financial activity. It shall be sufficiently low in order to ensure that the types of trans­ actions in question are an impractical and inefficient method for money laundering or terrorist financing, and shall not exceed EUR 1 000.
6. For the purposes of point (c) of paragraph 3, Member States shall require that the turnover of the financial activity does not exceed 5 % of the total turnover of the natural or legal person concerned.
( 1 ) Directive 2007/64/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of
13 November 2007 on payment services in the internal market amending Directives 97/7/EC, 2002/65/EC, 2005/60/EC and 2006/48/EC and repealing Directive 97/5/EC (OJ L 319, 5.12.2007, p. 1).
7. In assessing the risk of money laundering or terrorist financing for the purposes of this Article, Member States shall pay particular attention to any financial activity which is considered to be particularly likely, by its nature, to be used or abused for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing.
8. Decisions taken by Member States pursuant to paragraph 3 shall state the reasons on which they are based. Member States may decide to withdraw such decisions where circumstances change. They shall notify such decisions to the Commission. The Commission shall communicate such decisions to the other Member States.
9. Member States shall establish risk-based monitoring activities or take other adequate measures to ensure that the exemption granted by decisions pursuant to this Article is not abused.
Article 3
For the purposes of this Directive, the following definitions apply:
(1) ‘credit institution’ means a credit institution as defined in point (1)
of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council ( 1 ), including branches thereof, as defined in point (17) of Article 4(1) of that Regulation, located in the Union, whether its head office is situated within the Union or in a third country;
(2) ‘financial institution’ means:
(a) an undertaking other than a credit institution, which carries out
one or more of the activities listed in points (2) to (12), (14) and (15) of Annex I to Directive 2013/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council ( 2 ), including the activities of currency exchange offices (bureaux de change);
(b) an insurance undertaking as defined in point (1) of Article 13
of Directive 2009/138/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council ( 3 ), insofar as it carries out life assurance activities covered by that Directive;
( 1 ) Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council
of 26 June 2013 on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (OJ L 176, 27.6.2013, p. 1). ( 2 ) Directive 2013/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of
26 June 2013 on access to the activity of credit institutions and the prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms, amending Directive 2002/87/EC and repealing Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/49/EC (OJ L 176, 27.6.2013, p. 338). ( 3 ) Directive 2009/138/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of
25 November 2009 on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of Insurance and Reinsurance (Solvency II) (OJ L 335, 17.12.2009, p. 1).
(c) an investment firm as defined in point (1) of Article 4(1) of
Directive 2004/39/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council ( 1 );
(d) a collective investment undertaking marketing its units or
shares;
(e) an insurance intermediary as defined in point (5) of Article 2
of Directive 2002/92/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council ( 2 ) where it acts with respect to life insurance and other investment-related services, with the exception of a tied insurance intermediary as defined in point (7) of that Article;
(f) branches, when located in the Union, of financial institutions
as referred to in points (a) to (e), whether their head office is situated in a Member State or in a third country;
(g) crypto-asset service providers;
(3) ‘property’ means assets of any kind, whether corporeal or incor­
poreal, movable or immovable, tangible or intangible, and legal documents or instruments in any form including electronic or digital, evidencing title to or an interest in such assets;
(4) ‘criminal activity’ means any kind of criminal involvement in the
commission of the following serious crimes:
(a) terrorist offences, offences related to a terrorist group and
offences related to terrorist activities as set out in Titles II and III of Directive (EU) 2017/541 ( 3 );
(b) any of the offences referred in Article 3(1)(a) of the 1988
United Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances;
(c) the activities of criminal organisations as defined in Article 1(1)
of Council Framework Decision 2008/841/JHA ( 4 );
( 1 ) Directive 2004/39/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of
21 April 2004 on markets in financial instruments amending Council Directives 85/611/EEC and 93/6/EEC and Directive 2000/12/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Directive 93/22/EEC (OJ L 145, 30.4.2004, p. 1). ( 2 ) Directive 2002/92/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of
9 December 2002 on insurance mediation (OJ L 9, 15.1.2003, p. 3). ( 3 ) Directive (EU) 2017/541 of the European Parliament and of the Council of
15 March 2017 on combating terrorism and replacing Council Framework Decision 2002/475/JHA and amending Council Decision 2005/671/JHA (OJ L 88, 31.3.2017, p. 6). ( 4 ) Council Framework Decision 2008/841/JHA of 24 October 2008 on the fight
against organised crime (OJ L 300, 11.11.2008, p. 42).
(d) fraud affecting the Union's financial interests, where it is at
least serious, as defined in Article 1(1) and Article 2(1) of the Convention on the protection of the European Communities' financial interests ( 1 );
(e) corruption;
(f) all offences, including tax crimes relating to direct taxes and
indirect taxes and as defined in the national law of the Member States, which are punishable by deprivation of liberty or a detention order for a maximum of more than one year or, as regards Member States that have a minimum threshold for offences in their legal system, all offences punishable by deprivation of liberty or a detention order for a minimum of more than six months;
(5) ‘self-regulatory body’ means a body that represents members of a
profession and has a role in regulating them, in performing certain supervisory or monitoring type functions and in ensuring the en­ forcement of the rules relating to them;
(6) ‘beneficial owner’ means any natural person(s) who ultimately
owns or controls the customer and/or the natural person(s) on whose behalf a transaction or activity is being conducted and includes at least:
(a) in the case of corporate entities:
(i) the natural person(s) who ultimately owns or controls a
legal entity through direct or indirect ownership of a sufficient percentage of the shares or voting rights or ownership interest in that entity, including through bearer shareholdings, or through control via other means, other than a company listed on a regulated market that is subject to disclosure requirements consistent with Union law or subject to equivalent international standards which ensure adequate transparency of ownership information.
A shareholding of 25 % plus one share or an ownership interest of more than 25 % in the customer held by a natural person shall be an indication of direct ownership. A shareholding of 25 % plus one share or an ownership interest of more than 25 % in the customer held by a corporate entity, which is under the control of a natural person(s), or by multiple corporate entities, which are under the control of the same natural person(s), shall be an indication of indirect ownership. This applies without prejudice to the right of Member States to decide that a lower percentage may be an indication of ownership or control. Control through other means may be determined, inter alia, in accordance with the criteria in Article 22(1) to (5) of Directive 2013/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council ( 2 );
( 1 ) OJ C 316, 27.11.1995, p. 49. ( 2 ) Directive 2013/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of
26 June 2013 on the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and related reports of certain types of undertakings, amending Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC (OJ L 182, 29.6.2013, p. 19).
(ii) if, after having exhausted all possible means and provided
there are no grounds for suspicion, no person under point (i) is identified, or if there is any doubt that the person(s) identified are the beneficial owner(s), the natural person(s) who hold the position of senior managing official(s), the obliged entities shall keep records of the actions taken in order to identify the beneficial ownership under point (i) and this point;
(b) in the case of trusts, all following persons:
(i) the settlor(s);
(ii) the trustee(s);
(iii) the protector(s), if any;
(iv) the beneficiaries or where the individuals benefiting from
the legal arrangement or entity have yet to be determined, the class of persons in whose main interest the legal arrangement or entity is set up or operates;
(v) any other natural person exercising ultimate control over
the trust by means of direct or indirect ownership or by other means;
(c) in the case of legal entities such as foundations, and legal
arrangements similar to trusts, the natural person(s) holding equivalent or similar positions to those referred to in point (b);
(7) ‘trust or company service provider’ means any person that, by way
of its business, provides any of the following services to third parties:
(a) the formation of companies or other legal persons;
(b) acting as, or arranging for another person to act as, a director
or secretary of a company, a partner of a partnership, or a similar position in relation to other legal persons;
(c) providing a registered office, business address, correspondence
or administrative address and other related services for a company, a partnership or any other legal person or arrangement;
(d) acting as, or arranging for another person to act as, a trustee of
an express trust or a similar legal arrangement;
(e) acting as, or arranging for another person to act as, a nominee
shareholder for another person other than a company listed on a regulated market that is subject to disclosure requirements in accordance with Union law or subject to equivalent inter­ national standards;
(8) ‘correspondent relationship’ means:
(a) the provision of banking services by one bank as the corre­
spondent to another bank as the respondent, including providing a current or other liability account and related services, such as cash management, international funds transfers, cheque clearing, payable-through accounts and foreign exchange services;
(b) the relationships between and among credit institutions and
financial institutions, including where similar services are provided by a correspondent institution to a respondent insti­ tution, and including relationships established for securities transactions or funds transfers or relationships established for transactions in crypto-assets or transfers of crypto-assets;
(9) ‘politically exposed person’ means a natural person who is or who
has been entrusted with prominent public functions and includes the following:
(a) heads of State, heads of government, ministers and deputy or
assistant ministers;
(b) members of parliament or of similar legislative bodies;
(c) members of the governing bodies of political parties;
(d) members of supreme courts, of constitutional courts or of other
high-level judicial bodies, the decisions of which are not subject to further appeal, except in exceptional circumstances;
(e) members of courts of auditors or of the boards of central
banks;
(f) ambassadors, chargés d'affaires and high-ranking officers in
the armed forces;
(g) members of the administrative, management or supervisory
bodies of State-owned enterprises;
(h) directors, deputy directors and members of the board or
equivalent function of an international organisation.
No public function referred to in points (a) to (h) shall be understood as covering middle-ranking or more junior officials;
(10) ‘family members’ includes the following:
(a) the spouse, or a person considered to be equivalent to a
spouse, of a politically exposed person;
(b) the children and their spouses, or persons considered to be
equivalent to a spouse, of a politically exposed person;
(c) the parents of a politically exposed person;
(11) ‘persons known to be close associates’ means:
(a) natural persons who are known to have joint beneficial
ownership of legal entities or legal arrangements, or any other close business relations, with a politically exposed person;
(b) natural persons who have sole beneficial ownership of a legal
entity or legal arrangement which is known to have been set up for the de facto benefit of a politically exposed person.
(12) ‘senior management’ means an officer or employee with sufficient
knowledge of the institution's money laundering and terrorist financing risk exposure and sufficient seniority to take decisions affecting its risk exposure, and need not, in all cases, be a member of the board of directors;
(13) ‘business relationship’ means a business, professional or commercial relationship which is connected with the professional activities of an obliged entity and which is expected, at the time when the contact is established, to have an element of duration;
(14) ‘gambling services’ means a service which involves wagering a
stake with monetary value in games of chance, including those with an element of skill such as lotteries, casino games, poker games and betting transactions that are provided at a physical location, or by any means at a distance, by electronic means or any other technology for facilitating communication, and at the individual request of a recipient of services;
(15) ‘group’ means a group of undertakings which consists of a parent
undertaking, its subsidiaries, and the entities in which the parent undertaking or its subsidiaries hold a participation, as well as undertakings linked to each other by a relationship within the meaning of Article 22 of Directive 2013/34/EU;
(16) ‘electronic money’ means electronic money as defined in point (2)
of Article 2 of Directive 2009/110/EC, but excluding monetary value as referred to in Article 1(4) and (5) of that Directive;
(17) ‘shell bank’ means a credit institution or financial institution, or an
institution that carries out activities equivalent to those carried out by credit institutions and financial institutions, incorporated in a jurisdiction in which it has no physical presence, involving mean­ ingful mind and management, and which is unaffiliated with a regulated financial group ;
(18) ‘crypto-asset’ means a crypto-asset as defined in Article 3(1),
point (5), of Regulation (EU) 2023/1114 of the European Parliament and of the Council ( 1 ), except where falling within the categories listed in Article 2(2), (3) and (4) of that Regulation or otherwise qualifying as funds;
(19) ‘crypto-asset service provider’ means a crypto-asset service
provider as defined in Article 3(1), point (15), of Regulation (EU) 2023/1114, where performing one or more crypto-asset services as defined in Article 3(1), point (16), of that Regulation, with the exception of providing advice on crypto-assets as referred to in Article 3(1), point (16)(h), of that Regulation;
(20) ‘self-hosted address’ means a self-hosted address as defined in
Article 3, point (20), of Regulation (EU) 2023/1113 of the European Parliament and of the Council ( 2 ).
Article 4
1. Member States shall, in accordance with the risk-based approach, ensure that the scope of this Directive is extended in whole or in part to professions and to categories of undertakings, other than the obliged entities referred to in Article 2(1), which engage in activities which are particularly likely to be used for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing.
2. Where a Member State extends the scope of this Directive to professions or to categories of undertaking other than those referred to in Article 2(1), it shall inform the Commission thereof.
Article 5
Member States may adopt or retain in force stricter provisions in the field covered by this Directive to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, within the limits of Union law.
SECTION 2
Risk assessment
Article 6
1. The Commission shall conduct an assessment of the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing affecting the internal market and relating to cross-border activities.
( 1 ) Regulation (EU) 2023/1114 of the European Parliament and of the Council of
31 May 2023 on markets in crypto-assets, and amending Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 and Directives 2013/36/EU and (EU) 2019/1937 (OJ L 150, 9.6.2023, p. 40). ( 2 ) Regulation (EU) 2023/1113 of the European Parliament and of the Council of
31 May 2023 on information accompanying transfers of funds and certain crypto-assets and amending Directive (EU) 2015/849 (OJ L 150, 9.6.2023, p. 1).
To that end, the Commission shall, by 26 June 2017, draw up a report identifying, analysing and evaluating those risks at Union level. Thereafter, the Commission shall update its report every two years, or more frequently if appropriate.
2. The report referred to in paragraph 1 shall cover at least the following:
(a) the areas of the internal market that are at greatest risk;
(b) the risks associated with each relevant sector including, where
available, estimates of the monetary volumes of money laundering provided by Eurostat for each of those sectors;
(c) the most widespread means used by criminals to launder illicit
proceeds, including, where available, those particularly used in transactions between Member States and third countries, inde­ pendently of the identification of a third country as high-risk pursuant to Article 9(2).
3. The Commission shall make the report referred to in paragraph 1 available to Member States and obliged entities in order to assist them in identifying, understanding, managing and mitigating the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing, and to allow other stake­ holders, including national legislators, the European Parliament, the European Supervisory Authority (European Banking Authority) estab­ lished by Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council ( 1 ) (EBA), and representatives from EU Financial Intelligence Units (FIUs), to better understand those risks. The report shall be made public at the latest six months after having been made available to Member States, except for those elements of the report which contain classified information.
4. The Commission shall make recommendations to Member States on the measures suitable for addressing the identified risks. In the event that Member States decide not to apply any of the recommendations in their national AML/CFT regimes, they shall notify the Commission thereof and provide a justification for such a decision.
5. By 26 December 2016, the ESAs, through the Joint Committee, shall issue an opinion on the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing affecting the Union's financial sector (the ‘joint opinion’). ►M2 Thereafter, EBA shall issue an opinion every two years. ◄
6. In conducting the assessment referred to in paragraph 1, the Commission shall organise the work at Union level, shall take into account the joint opinions referred to in paragraph 5 and shall involve the Member States' experts in the area of AML/CFT, representatives from FIUs and other Union level bodies where appropriate. The Commission shall make the joint opinions available to the Member States and obliged entities in order to assist them to identify, manage and mitigate the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing.
( 1 ) Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 24 November 2010 establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Banking Authority), amending Decision No 716/2009/EC and repealing Commission Decision 2009/78/EC (OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 12).
7. Every two years, or more frequently if appropriate, the Commission shall submit a report to the European Parliament and to the Council on the findings resulting from the regular risk assessments and the action taken based on those findings.
Article 7
1. Each Member State shall take appropriate steps to identify, assess, understand and mitigate the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing affecting it, as well as any data protection concerns in that regard. It shall keep that risk assessment up to date.
2. Each Member State shall designate an authority or establish a mechanism by which to coordinate the national response to the risks referred to in paragraph 1. ►M2 The identity of that authority or the description of the mechanism shall be notified to the Commission, to EBA, and to the other Member States. ◄
3. In carrying out the risk assessments referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, Member States shall make use of the findings of the report referred to in Article 6(1).
4. As regards the risk assessment referred to in paragraph 1, each Member State shall:
(a) use it to improve its AML/CFT regime, in particular by identifying
any areas where obliged entities are to apply enhanced measures and, where appropriate, specifying the measures to be taken;
(b) identify, where appropriate, sectors or areas of lower or greater risk
of money laundering and terrorist financing;
(c) use it to assist it in the allocation and prioritisation of resources to
combat money laundering and terrorist financing;
(d) use it to ensure that appropriate rules are drawn up for each sector
or area, in accordance with the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing;
(e) make appropriate information available promptly to obliged entities
to facilitate the carrying out of their own money laundering and terrorist financing risk assessments ;
(f) report the institutional structure and broad procedures of their
AML/CFT regime, including, inter alia, the FIU, tax authorities and prosecutors, as well as the allocated human and financial resources to the extent that this information is available;
(g) report on national efforts and resources (labour forces and budget)
allocated to combat money laundering and terrorist financing.
5. ►M2 Member States shall make the results of their risk assessments, including their updates, available to the Commission, to EBA and to the other Member States. ◄ Other Member States may provide relevant additional information, where appropriate, to the Member State carrying out the risk assessment. A summary of the assessment shall be made publicly available. That summary shall not contain classified information.
Article 8
1. Member States shall ensure that obliged entities take appropriate steps to identify and assess the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing, taking into account risk factors including those relating to their customers, countries or geographic areas, products, services, trans­ actions or delivery channels. Those steps shall be proportionate to the nature and size of the obliged entities.
2. The risk assessments referred to in paragraph 1 shall be docu­ mented, kept up-to-date and made available to the relevant competent authorities and self-regulatory bodies concerned. Competent authorities may decide that individual documented risk assessments are not required where the specific risks inherent in the sector are clear and understood.
3. Member States shall ensure that obliged entities have in place policies, controls and procedures to mitigate and manage effectively the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing identified at the level of the Union, the Member State and the obliged entity. Those policies, controls and procedures shall be proportionate to the nature and size of the obliged entities.
4. The policies, controls and procedures referred to in paragraph 3 shall include:
(a) the development of internal policies, controls and procedures,
including model risk management practices, customer due diligence, reporting, record-keeping, internal control, compliance management including, where appropriate with regard to the size and nature of the business, the appointment of a compliance officer at management level, and employee screening;
(b) where appropriate with regard to the size and nature of the business,
an independent audit function to test the internal policies, controls and procedures referred to in point (a).
5. Member States shall require obliged entities to obtain approval from their senior management for the policies, controls and procedures that they put in place and to monitor and enhance the measures taken, where appropriate.
SECTION 3
Third-country policy
Article 9
1. Third-country jurisdictions which have strategic deficiencies in their national AML/CFT regimes that pose significant threats to the financial system of the Union (‘high-risk third countries’) shall be identified in order to protect the proper functioning of the internal market.
2. The Commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 64 in order to identify high-risk third countries, taking into account strategic deficiencies in particular in the following areas:
(a) the legal and institutional AML/CFT framework of the third
country, in particular:
(i) the criminalisation of money laundering and terrorist financing;
(ii) measures relating to customer due diligence;
(iii) requirements relating to record-keeping;
(iv) requirements to report suspicious transactions;
(v) the availability of accurate and timely information of the
beneficial ownership of legal persons and arrangements to competent authorities;
(b) the powers and procedures of the third country’s competent auth­
orities for the purposes of combating money laundering and terrorist financing including appropriately effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions, as well as the third country’s practice in co­ operation and exchange of information with Member States’ competent authorities;
(c) the effectiveness of the third country’s AML/CFT system in
addressing money laundering or terrorist financing risks.
3. The delegated acts referred to in paragraph 2 shall be adopted within one month after the identification of the strategic deficiencies referred to in that paragraph.
4. The Commission, when drawing up the delegated acts referred to in paragraph 2, shall take into account relevant evaluations, assessments or reports drawn up by international organisations and standard setters with competence in the field of preventing money laundering and combating terrorist financing.
CHAPTER II
CUSTOMER DUE DILIGENCE
SECTION 1
General provisions
Article 10
1. Member States shall prohibit their credit institutions and financial institutions from keeping anonymous accounts, anonymous passbooks or anonymous safe-deposit boxes. Member States shall, in any event, require that the owners and beneficiaries of existing anonymous accounts, anonymous passbooks or anonymous safe-deposit boxes be subject to customer due diligence measures no later than 10 January 2019 and in any event before such accounts, passbooks or deposit boxes are used in any way.
2. Member States shall take measures to prevent misuse of bearer shares and bearer share warrants.
Article 11
Member States shall ensure that obliged entities apply customer due diligence measures in the following circumstances:
(a) when establishing a business relationship;
(b) when carrying out an occasional transaction that:
(i) amounts to EUR 15 000 or more, whether that transaction is
carried out in a single operation or in several operations which appear to be linked; or
(ii) constitutes a transfer of funds, as defined in point (9) of
Article 3 of Regulation (EU) 2015/847 of the European Parliament and of the Council ( 1 ), exceeding EUR 1 000;
(c) in the case of persons trading in goods, when carrying out occa­
sional transactions in cash amounting to EUR 10 000 or more, whether the transaction is carried out in a single operation or in several operations which appear to be linked;
(d) for providers of gambling services, upon the collection of winnings,
the wagering of a stake, or both, when carrying out transactions amounting to EUR 2 000 or more, whether the transaction is carried out in a single operation or in several operations which appear to be linked;
( 1 ) Regulation (EU) 2015/847 of the European Parliament and of the Council of
20 May 2015 on information accompanying transfers of funds and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1781/2006 (see page 1 of this Official Journal).
(e) when there is a suspicion of money laundering or terrorist financing,
regardless of any derogation, exemption or threshold;
(f) when there are doubts about the veracity or adequacy of previously
obtained customer identification data.
Article 12
1. By way of derogation from points (a), (b) and (c) of the first subparagraph of Article 13(1) and Article 14, and based on an appro­ priate risk assessment which demonstrates a low risk, a Member State may allow obliged entities not to apply certain customer due diligence measures with respect to electronic money, where all of the following risk-mitigating conditions are met:
(a) the payment instrument is not reloadable, or has a maximum
monthly payment transactions limit of EUR 150 which can be used only in that Member State;
(b) the maximum amount stored electronically does not exceed EUR 150;
(c) the payment instrument is used exclusively to purchase goods or
services;
(d) the payment instrument cannot be funded with anonymous elec­
tronic money;
(e) the issuer carries out sufficient monitoring of the transactions or
business relationship to enable the detection of unusual or suspicious transactions.
▼M1 __________
2. Member States shall ensure that the derogation provided for in paragraph 1 of this Article is not applicable in the case of redemption in cash or cash withdrawal of the monetary value of the electronic money where the amount redeemed exceeds EUR 50, or in the case of remote payment transactions as defined in point (6) of Article 4 of the Directive (EU) 2015/2366 of the European Parliament and of the Council ( 1 ) where the amount paid exceeds EUR 50 per transaction.
3. Member States shall ensure that credit institutions and financial institutions acting as acquirers only accept payments carried out with anonymous prepaid cards issued in third countries where such cards meet requirements equivalent to those set out in paragraphs 1 and 2.
Member States may decide not to accept on their territory payments carried out by using anonymous prepaid cards.
( 1 ) Directive (EU) 2015/2366 of the European Parliament and of the Council of
25 November 2015 on payment services in the internal market, amending Directives 2002/65/EC, 2009/110/EC and 2013/36/EU and Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, and repealing Directive 2007/64/EC (OJ L 337, 23.12.2015, p. 35).
Article 13
1. Customer due diligence measures shall comprise:
(a) identifying the customer and verifying the customer’s identity on
the basis of documents, data or information obtained from a reliable and independent source, including, where available, electronic identification means, relevant trust services as set out in Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council ( 1 ) or any other secure, remote or electronic identifi­ cation process regulated, recognised, approved or accepted by the relevant national authorities;
(b) identifying the beneficial owner and taking reasonable measures to
verify that person's identity so that the obliged entity is satisfied that it knows who the beneficial owner is, including, as regards legal persons, trusts, companies, foundations and similar legal arrangements, taking reasonable measures to understand the ownership and control structure of the customer. ►M1 Where the beneficial owner identified is the senior managing official as referred to in Article 3(6)(a) (ii), obliged entities shall take the necessary reasonable measures to verify the identity of the natural person who holds the position of senior managing official and shall keep records of the actions taken as well as any difficulties encountered during the verification process; ◄
(c) assessing and, as appropriate, obtaining information on the purpose
and intended nature of the business relationship;
(d) conducting ongoing monitoring of the business relationship
including scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the course of that relationship to ensure that the transactions being conducted are consistent with the obliged entity's knowledge of the customer, the business and risk profile, including where necessary the source of funds and ensuring that the documents, data or information held are kept up-to-date.
When performing the measures referred to in points (a) and (b) of the first subparagraph, obliged entities shall also verify that any person purporting to act on behalf of the customer is so authorised and identify and verify the identity of that person.
2. Member States shall ensure that obliged entities apply each of the customer due diligence requirements laid down in paragraph 1. However, obliged entities may determine the extent of such measures on a risk-sensitive basis.
( 1 ) Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council
of 23 July 2014 on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions in the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93/EC (OJ L 257, 28.8.2014, p. 73).
3. Member States shall require that obliged entities take into account at least the variables set out in Annex I when assessing the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing.
4. Member States shall ensure that obliged entities are able to demonstrate to competent authorities or self-regulatory bodies that the measures are appropriate in view of the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing that have been identified.
5. For life or other investment-related insurance business, Member States shall ensure that, in addition to the customer due diligence measures required for the customer and the beneficial owner, credit institutions and financial institutions conduct the following customer due diligence measures on the beneficiaries of life insurance and other investment-related insurance policies, as soon as the beneficiaries are identified or designated:
(a) in the case of beneficiaries that are identified as specifically named
persons or legal arrangements, taking the name of the person;
(b) in the case of beneficiaries that are designated by characteristics or
by class or by other means, obtaining sufficient information concerning those beneficiaries to satisfy the credit institutions or financial institution that it will be able to establish the identity of the beneficiary at the time of the payout.
With regard to points (a) and (b) of the first subparagraph, the verifi­ cation of the identity of the beneficiaries shall take place at the time of the payout. In the case of assignment, in whole or in part, of the life or other investment-related insurance to a third party, credit institutions and financial institutions aware of the assignment shall identify the beneficial owner at the time of the assignment to the natural or legal person or legal arrangement receiving for its own benefit the value of the policy assigned.
6. In the case of beneficiaries of trusts or of similar legal arrangements that are designated by particular characteristics or class, an obliged entity shall obtain sufficient information concerning the ben­ eficiary to satisfy the obliged entity that it will be able to establish the identity of the beneficiary at the time of the payout or at the time of the exercise by the beneficiary of its vested rights.
Article 14
1. Member States shall require that verification of the identity of the customer and the beneficial owner take place before the establishment of a business relationship or the carrying out of the transaction. ►M1 Whenever entering into a new business relationship with a corporate or other legal entity, or a trust or a legal arrangement having a structure or functions similar to trusts (‘similar legal arrangement’) which are subject to the registration of beneficial ownership information pursuant to Article 30 or 31, the obliged entities shall collect proof of registration or an excerpt of the register. ◄
2. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, Member States may allow verification of the identity of the customer and the beneficial owner to be completed during the establishment of a business rela­ tionship if necessary so as not to interrupt the normal conduct of business and where there is little risk of money laundering or terrorist financing. In such situations, those procedures shall be completed as soon as practicable after initial contact.
3. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, Member States may allow the opening of an account with a credit institution or financial institution, including accounts that permit transactions in transferable securities, provided that there are adequate safeguards in place to ensure that transactions are not carried out by the customer or on its behalf until full compliance with the customer due diligence requirements laid down in points (a) and (b) of the first subparagraph of Article 13(1) is obtained.
4. Member States shall require that, where an obliged entity is unable to comply with the customer due diligence requirements laid down in point (a), (b) or (c) of the first subparagraph of Article 13(1), it shall not carry out a transaction through a bank account, establish a business relationship or carry out the transaction, and shall terminate the business relationship and consider making a suspicious transaction report to the FIU in relation to the customer in accordance with Article 33.
Member States shall not apply the first subparagraph to notaries, other independent legal professionals, auditors, external accountants and tax advisors only to the strict extent that those persons ascertain the legal position of their client, or perform the task of defending or representing that client in, or concerning, judicial proceedings, including providing advice on instituting or avoiding such proceedings.
5. Member States shall require that obliged entities apply the customer due diligence measures not only to all new customers but also at appropriate times to existing customers on a risk-sensitive basis, or when the relevant circumstances of a customer change, or when the obliged entity has any legal duty in the course of the relevant calendar year to contact the customer for the purpose of reviewing any relevant information relating to the beneficial owner(s), or if the obliged entity has had this duty under Council Directive 2011/16/EU ( 1 ).
SECTION 2
Simplified customer due diligence
Article 15
1. Where a Member State or an obliged entity identifies areas of lower risk, that Member State may allow obliged entities to apply simplified customer due diligence measures.
( 1 ) Council Directive 2011/16/EU of 15 February 2011 on administrative coop­
eration in the field of taxation and repealing Directive 77/799/EEC (OJ L 64, 11.3.2011, p. 1).
2. Before applying simplified customer due diligence measures, obliged entities shall ascertain that the business relationship or the trans­ action presents a lower degree of risk.
3. Member States shall ensure that obliged entities carry out sufficient monitoring of the transactions and business relationships to enable the detection of unusual or suspicious transactions.
Article 16
When assessing the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing relating to types of customers, geographic areas, and particular products, services, transactions or delivery channels, Member States and obliged entities shall take into account at least the factors of potentially lower risk situations set out in Annex II.
Article 17
►M2 By 26 June 2017, the ESAs shall issue guidelines, addressed to competent authorities and to the credit institutions and financial insti­ tutions, in accordance with Article 16 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 on the risk factors to be taken into consideration and the measures to be taken in situations where simplified customer due diligence measures are appropriate. From 1 January 2020, EBA shall, where appropriate, issue such guidelines. ◄ Specific account shall be taken of the nature and size of the business, and, where appropriate and proportionate, specific measures shall be laid down.
SECTION 3
Enhanced customer due diligence
Article 18
1. ►M1 In the cases referred to in Articles 18a to 24, as well as in other cases of higher risk that are identified by Member States or obliged entities, Member States shall require obliged entities to apply enhanced customer due diligence measures to manage and mitigate those risks appropriately. ◄
Enhanced customer due diligence measures need not be invoked auto­ matically with respect to branches or majority-owned subsidiaries of obliged entities established in the Union which are located in high-risk third countries, where those branches or majority-owned subsidiaries fully comply with the group-wide policies and procedures in accordance with Article 45. Member States shall ensure that those cases are handled by obliged entities by using a risk-based approach.
2. Member States shall require obliged entities to examine, as far as reasonably possible, the background and purpose of all transactions that fulfil at least one of the following conditions:
(i) they are complex transactions;
(ii) they are unusually large transactions;
(iii) they are conducted in an unusual pattern;
(iv) they do not have an apparent economic or lawful purpose.
In particular, obliged entities shall increase the degree and nature of monitoring of the business relationship, in order to determine whether those transactions or activities appear suspicious.
3. When assessing the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing, Member States and obliged entities shall take into account at least the factors of potentially higher-risk situations set out in Annex III.
4. ►M2 By 26 June 2017, the ESAs shall issue guidelines, addressed to competent authorities and the credit institutions and financial institutions, in accordance with Article 16 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 on the risk factors to be taken into consideration and the measures to be taken in situations where enhanced customer due diligence measures are appropriate. From 1 January 2020, EBA shall, where appropriate, issue such guidelines. ◄ Specific account shall be taken of the nature and size of the business, and, where appropriate and proportionate, specific measures shall be laid down.
5. By 30 December 2024, EBA shall issue guidelines on risk variables and risk factors to be taken into account by crypto-asset service providers when entering into business relationships or carrying out transactions in crypto-assets.
6. EBA shall clarify, in particular, how the risk factors listed in Annex III shall be taken into account by crypto-asset service providers including when carrying out transactions with persons and entities which are not covered by this Directive. To that end, EBA shall pay particular attention to products, transactions and technologies that have the potential to facilitate anonymity, such as privacy wallets, mixers or tumblers.
Where situations of higher risk are identified, the guidelines referred to in paragraph 5 shall include enhanced due diligence measures that obliged entities shall consider applying to mitigate such risks, including the adoption of appropriate procedures to detect the origin or destination of crypto-assets.
Article 18a
1. With respect to business relationships or transactions involving high-risk third countries identified pursuant to Article 9(2), Member States shall require obliged entities to apply the following enhanced customer due diligence measures:
(a) obtaining additional information on the customer and on the
beneficial owner(s);
(b) obtaining additional information on the intended nature of the
business relationship;
(c) obtaining information on the source of funds and source of wealth
of the customer and of the beneficial owner(s);
(d) obtaining information on the reasons for the intended or performed
transactions;
(e) obtaining the approval of senior management for establishing or
continuing the business relationship;
(f) conducting enhanced monitoring of the business relationship by
increasing the number and timing of controls applied, and selecting patterns of transactions that need further examination.
Member States may require obliged entities to ensure, where applicable, that the first payment be carried out through an account in the customer’s name with a credit institution subject to customer due diligence standards that are not less robust than those laid down in this Directive.
2. In addition to the measures provided in paragraph 1 and in compliance with the Union’s international obligations, Member States shall require obliged entities to apply, where applicable, one or more additional mitigating measures to persons and legal entities carrying out transactions involving high-risk third countries identified pursuant to Article 9(2). Those measures shall consist of one or more of the following:
(a) the application of additional elements of enhanced due diligence;
(b) the introduction of enhanced relevant reporting mechanisms or
systematic reporting of financial transactions;
(c) the limitation of business relationships or transactions with natural
persons or legal entities from the third countries identified as high risk countries pursuant to Article 9(2).
3. In addition to the measures provided in paragraph 1, Member States shall apply, where applicable, one or several of the following measures with regard to high-risk third countries identified pursuant to Article 9(2) in compliance with the Union’s international obligations:
(a) refusing the establishment of subsidiaries or branches or represen­
tative offices of obliged entities from the country concerned, or otherwise taking into account the fact that the relevant obliged entity is from a country that does not have adequate AML/CFT regimes;
(b) prohibiting obliged entities from establishing branches or represen­
tative offices in the country concerned, or otherwise taking into account the fact that the relevant branch or representative office would be in a country that does not have adequate AML/CFT regimes;
(c) requiring increased supervisory examination or increased external
audit requirements for branches and subsidiaries of obliged entities located in the country concerned;
(d) requiring increased external audit requirements for financial groups
with respect to any of their branches and subsidiaries located in the country concerned;
(e) requiring credit and financial institutions to review and amend, or if
necessary terminate, correspondent relationships with respondent institutions in the country concerned.
4. When enacting or applying the measures set out in paragraphs 2 and 3, Member States shall take into account, as appropriate relevant evaluations, assessments or reports drawn up by international organis­ ations and standard setters with competence in the field of preventing money laundering and combating terrorist financing, in relation to the risks posed by individual third countries.
5. Member States shall notify the Commission before enacting or applying the measures set out in paragraphs 2 and 3.
Article 19
With respect to cross-border correspondent relationships involving the execution of payments with a third-country respondent institution, Member States shall, in addition to the customer due diligence measures laid down in Article 13, require their credit institutions and financial institutions when entering into a business relationship to:
(a) gather sufficient information about the respondent institution to
understand fully the nature of the respondent's business and to determine from publicly available information the reputation of the institution and the quality of supervision;
(b) assess the respondent institution's AML/CFT controls;
(c) obtain approval from senior management before establishing new
correspondent relationships;
(d) document the respective responsibilities of each institution;
(e) with respect to payable-through accounts, be satisfied that the
respondent institution has verified the identity of, and performed ongoing due diligence on, the customers having direct access to accounts of the correspondent institution, and that it is able to provide relevant customer due diligence data to the correspondent institution, upon request.
Article 19a
1. Member States shall require crypto-asset service providers to identify and assess the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing associated with transfers of crypto-assets directed to or orig­ inating from a self-hosted address. To that end, crypto-asset service providers shall have in place internal policies, procedures and controls. Member States shall require crypto-asset service providers to apply mitigating measures commensurate with the risks identified. Those mitigating measures shall include one or more of the following:
(a) taking risk-based measures to identify, and verify the identity of, the
originator or beneficiary of a transfer made to or from a self-hosted address or the beneficial owner of such originator or beneficiary, including through reliance on third parties;
(b) requiring additional information on the origin and destination of the
transferred crypto-assets;
(c) conducting enhanced ongoing monitoring of those transactions;
(d) any other measure to mitigate and manage the risks of money
laundering and terrorist financing as well as the risk of non-implementation and evasion of targeted financial sanctions and proliferation financing-related targeted financial sanctions.
2. By 30 December 2024, EBA shall issue guidelines to specify the measures referred to in this Article, including the criteria and means for identification and verification of the identity of the originator or ben­ eficiary of a transfer made to or from a self-hosted address, in particular through reliance on third parties, taking into account the latest tech­ nological developments.
Article 19b
1. By way of derogation from Article 19, with respect to cross-border correspondent relationships involving the execution of crypto-asset services as defined in Article 3(1), point (16), of Regulation (EU) 2023/1114, with the exception of point (h) of that point, with a respondent entity not established in the Union and providing similar services, including transfers of crypto-assets, Member States shall, in addition to the customer due diligence measures laid down in Article 13 of this Directive, require crypto-asset service providers, when entering into a business relationship with such an entity, to:
(a) determine if the respondent entity is licensed or registered;
(b) gather sufficient information about the respondent entity to
understand fully the nature of the respondent’s business and to determine from publicly available information the reputation of the entity and the quality of supervision;
(c) assess the respondent entity’s AML/CFT controls;
(d) obtain approval from senior management before establishing new
correspondent relationships;
(e) document the respective responsibilities of each party to the corre­
spondent relationship;
(f) with respect to payable-through crypto-asset accounts, be satisfied
that the respondent entity has verified the identity of, and performed ongoing due diligence on, the customers having direct access to accounts of the correspondent entity, and that it is able to provide relevant customer due diligence data to the correspondent entity, upon request.
Where crypto-asset service providers decide to terminate correspondent relationships for reasons relating to anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing policy, they shall document and record their decision.
Crypto-asset service providers shall update the due diligence information for the correspondent relationship on a regular basis or when new risks emerge in relation to the respondent entity.
2. Member States shall ensure crypto-asset service providers take into account the information referred to in paragraph 1 in order to determine, on a risk-sensitive basis, the appropriate measures to be taken to mitigate the risks associated with the respondent entity.
3. By 30 June 2024, EBA shall issue guidelines to specify the criteria and elements that crypto-asset service providers shall take into account when conducting the assessment referred to in paragraph 1 and the risk mitigating measures referred to in paragraph 2, including the minimum action to be taken by crypto-asset service providers where the respondent entity is not registered or licensed.
Article 20
With respect to transactions or business relationships with politically exposed persons, Member States shall, in addition to the customer due diligence measures laid down in Article 13, require obliged entities to:
(a) have in place appropriate risk management systems, including
risk-based procedures, to determine whether the customer or the beneficial owner of the customer is a politically exposed person;
(b) apply the following measures in cases of business relationships with
politically exposed persons:
(i) obtain senior management approval for establishing or
continuing business relationships with such persons;
(ii) take adequate measures to establish the source of wealth and
source of funds that are involved in business relationships or transactions with such persons;
(iii) conduct enhanced, ongoing monitoring of those business
relationships.
Article 20a
1. Each Member State shall issue and keep up to date a list indicating the exact functions which, according to national laws, regulations and administrative provisions, qualify as prominent public functions for the purposes of point (9) of Article 3. Member States shall request each international organisation accredited on their territories to issue and keep up to date a list of prominent public functions at that international organisation for the purposes of point (9) of Article 3. Those lists shall be sent to the Commission and may be made public.
2. The Commission shall compile and keep up to date the list of the exact functions which qualify as prominent public functions at the level of Union institutions and bodies. That list shall also include any function which may be entrusted to representatives of third countries and of international bodies accredited at Union level.
3. The Commission shall assemble, based on the lists provided for in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, a single list of all prominent public functions for the purposes of point (9) of Article 3. That single list shall be made public.
4. Functions included in the list referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article shall be dealt with in accordance with the conditions laid down in Article 41(2).
Article 21
Member States shall require obliged entities to take reasonable measures to determine whether the beneficiaries of a life or other investment-related insurance policy and/or, where required, the beneficial owner of the beneficiary are politically exposed persons. Those measures shall be taken no later than at the time of the payout or at the time of the assignment, in whole or in part, of the policy. Where there are higher risks identified, in addition to applying the customer due diligence measures laid down in Article 13, Member States shall require obliged entities to:
(a) inform senior management before payout of policy proceeds;
(b) conduct enhanced scrutiny of the entire business relationship with
the policyholder.
Article 22
Where a politically exposed person is no longer entrusted with a prominent public function by a Member State or a third country, or with a prominent public function by an international organisation, obliged entities shall, for at least 12 months, be required to take into account the continuing risk posed by that person and to apply appro­ priate and risk-sensitive measures until such time as that person is deemed to pose no further risk specific to politically exposed persons.
Article 23
The measures referred to in Articles 20 and 21 shall also apply to family members or persons known to be close associates of politically exposed persons.
Article 24
Member States shall prohibit credit institutions and financial institutions from entering into, or continuing, a correspondent relationship with a shell bank. They shall require that those institutions take appropriate measures to ensure that they do not engage in or continue correspondent relationships with a credit institution or financial institution that is known to allow its accounts to be used by a shell bank.
Article 24a
By 1 January 2024, EBA shall issue guidelines specifying how the enhanced customer due diligence measures in this Section apply when obliged entities perform crypto-asset services as defined in Article 3(1), point (16), of Regulation (EU) 2023/1114, with the exception of point (h) of that point, as well as transfers of crypto-assets as defined in Article 3, point (10), of Regulation (EU) 2023/1113. In particular, EBA shall specify how and when those obliged entities shall obtain additional information on the originator and beneficiary.
SECTION 4
Performance by third parties
Article 25
Member States may permit obliged entities to rely on third parties to meet the customer due diligence requirements laid down in points (a), (b) and (c) of the first subparagraph of Article 13(1). However, the ultimate responsibility for meeting those requirements shall remain with the obliged entity which relies on the third party.
Article 26
1. For the purposes of this Section, ‘third parties’ means obliged entities listed in Article 2, the member organisations or federations of those obliged entities, or other institutions or persons situated in a Member State or third country that:
(a) apply customer due diligence requirements and record-keeping
requirements that are consistent with those laid down in this Directive; and
(b) have their compliance with the requirements of this Directive
supervised in a manner consistent with Section 2 of Chapter VI.
2. Member States shall prohibit obliged entities from relying on third parties established in high-risk third countries. Member States may exempt branches and majority-owned subsidiaries of obliged entities established in the Union from that prohibition where those branches and majority-owned subsidiaries fully comply with the group-wide policies and procedures in accordance with Article 45.
Article 27
1. Member States shall ensure that obliged entities obtain from the third party relied upon the necessary information concerning the customer due diligence requirements laid down in points (a), (b) and (c) of the first subparagraph of Article 13(1).
2. Member States shall ensure that obliged entities to which the customer is referred take adequate steps to ensure that the third party provides immediately, upon request, relevant copies of identification and verification data, including, where available, data obtained through electronic identification means, relevant trust services as set out in Regulation (EU) No 910/2014, or any other secure, remote or electronic, identification process regulated, recognised, approved or accepted by the relevant national authorities.
Article 28
Member States shall ensure that the competent authority of the home Member State (for group-wide policies and procedures) and the competent authority of the host Member State (for branches and subsidiaries) may consider an obliged entity to comply with the provisions adopted pursuant to Articles 26 and 27 through its group programme, where all of the following conditions are met:
(a) the obliged entity relies on information provided by a third party
that is part of the same group;
(b) that group applies customer due diligence measures, rules on
record-keeping and programmes against money laundering and terrorist financing in accordance with this Directive or equivalent rules;
(c) the effective implementation of the requirements referred to in
point (b) is supervised at group level by a competent authority of the home Member State or of the third country.
Article 29
This Section shall not apply to outsourcing or agency relationships where, on the basis of a contractual arrangement, the outsourcing service provider or agent is to be regarded as part of the obliged entity.
CHAPTER III
BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP INFORMATION
Article 30
1. ►M1 Member States shall ensure that corporate and other legal entities incorporated within their territory are required to obtain and hold adequate, accurate and current information on their beneficial ownership, including the details of the beneficial interests held. Member States shall ensure that breaches of this Article are subject to effective, proportionate and dissuasive measures or sanctions. ◄
Member States shall ensure that those entities are required to provide, in addition to information about their legal owner, information on the beneficial owner to obliged entities when the obliged entities are taking customer due diligence measures in accordance with Chapter II.
Member States shall require that the beneficial owners of corporate or other legal entities, including through shares, voting rights, ownership interest, bearer shareholdings or control via other means, provide those entities with all the information necessary for the corporate or other legal entity to comply with the requirements in the first subparagraph.
2. Member States shall require that the information referred to in paragraph 1 can be accessed in a timely manner by competent auth­ orities and FIUs.
3. Member States shall ensure that the information referred to in paragraph 1 is held in a central register in each Member State, for example a commercial register, companies register as referred to in Article 3 of Directive 2009/101/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council ( 1 ), or a public register. Member States shall notify to the Commission the characteristics of those national mechanisms. The information on beneficial ownership contained in that database may be collected in accordance with national systems.
4. Member States shall require that the information held in the central register referred to in paragraph 3 is adequate, accurate and current, and shall put in place mechanisms to this effect. Such mechanisms shall include requiring obliged entities and, if appropriate and to the extent that this requirement does not interfere unnecessarily with their functions, competent authorities to report any discrepancies they find between the beneficial ownership information available in the central registers and the beneficial ownership information available to them. In the case of reported discrepancies, Member States shall ensure that appropriate actions be taken to resolve the discrepancies in a timely manner and, if appropriate, a specific mention be included in the central register in the meantime.
( 1 ) Directive 2009/101/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of
16 September 2009 on coordination of safeguards which, for the protection of the interests of members and third parties, are required by Member States of companies within the meaning of the second paragraph of Article 48 of the Treaty, with a view to making such safeguards equivalent (OJ L 258, 1.10.2009, p. 11).
5. Member States shall ensure that the information on the beneficial ownership is accessible in all cases to:
(a) competent authorities and FIUs, without any restriction;
(b) obliged entities, within the framework of customer due diligence in
accordance with Chapter II;
(c) any person or organisation that can demonstrate a legitimate
interest.
The persons or organisations referred to in point (c) of the first sub­ paragraph shall be permitted to access at least the name, the month and year of birth and the country of residence and nationality of the beneficial owner as well as the nature and extent of the beneficial interest held.
Member States may, under conditions to be determined in national law, provide for access to additional information enabling the identification of the beneficial owner. That additional information shall include at least the date of birth or contact details in accordance with data protection rules.
5a. Member States may choose to make the information held in their national registers referred to in paragraph 3 available on the condition of online registration and the payment of a fee, which shall not exceed the administrative costs of making the information available, including costs of maintenance and developments of the register.
6. Member States shall ensure that competent authorities and FIUs have timely and unrestricted access to all information held in the central register referred to in paragraph 3 without alerting the entity concerned. Member States shall also allow timely access by obliged entities when taking customer due diligence measures in accordance with Chapter II.
Competent authorities granted access to the central register referred to in paragraph 3 shall be those public authorities with designated responsi­ bilities for combating money laundering or terrorist financing, as well as tax authorities, supervisors of obliged entities and authorities that have the function of investigating or prosecuting money laundering, associ­ ated predicate offences and terrorist financing, tracing and seizing or freezing and confiscating criminal assets.
7. Member States shall ensure that competent authorities and FIUs are able to provide the information referred to in paragraphs 1 and 3 to the competent authorities and to the FIUs of other Member States in a timely manner and free of charge.
8. Member States shall require that obliged entities do not rely exclusively on the central register referred to in paragraph 3 to fulfil their customer due diligence requirements in accordance with Chapter II. Those requirements shall be fulfilled by using a risk-based approach.
9. In exceptional circumstances to be laid down in national law, where the access referred to in points (b) and (c) of the first subpara­ graph of paragraph 5 would expose the beneficial owner to dispropor­ tionate risk, risk of fraud, kidnapping, blackmail, extortion, harassment, violence or intimidation, or where the beneficial owner is a minor or otherwise legally incapable, Member States may provide for an exemption from such access to all or part of the information on the beneficial ownership on a case-by-case basis. Member States shall ensure that these exemptions are granted upon a detailed evaluation of the exceptional nature of the circumstances. Rights to an administra­ tive review of the exemption decision and to an effective judicial remedy shall be guaranteed. A Member State that has granted exemptions shall publish annual statistical data on the number of exemptions granted and reasons stated and report the data to the Commission.
Exemptions granted pursuant to the first subparagraph of this paragraph shall not apply to credit institutions and financial institutions, or to the obliged entities referred to in point (3)(b) of Article 2(1) that are public officials.
10. Member States shall ensure that the central registers referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article are interconnected via the European Central Platform established by Article 22(1) of Directive (EU) 2017/1132 of the European Parliament and of the Council ( 1 ). The connection of the Member States’ central registers to the platform shall be set up in accordance with the technical specifications and procedures established by implementing acts adopted by the Commission in accordance with Article 24 of Directive (EU) 2017/1132 and with Article 31a of this Directive.
Member States shall ensure that the information referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article is available through the system of interconnection of registers established by Article 22(1) of Directive (EU) 2017/1132, in accordance with Member States’ national laws implementing paragraphs 5, 5a and 6 of this Article.
The information referred to in paragraph 1 shall be available through the national registers and through the system of interconnection of registers for at least five years and no more than 10 years after the corporate or other legal entity has been struck off from the register. Member States shall cooperate among themselves and with the Commission in order to implement the different types of access in accordance with this Article.
Article 31
1. Member States shall ensure that this Article applies to trusts and other types of legal arrangements, such as, inter alia, fiducie, certain types of Treuhand or fideicomiso, where such arrangements have a structure or functions similar to trusts. Member States shall identify the characteristics to determine where legal arrangements have a structure or functions similar to trusts with regard to such legal arrangements governed under their law.
( 1 ) Directive (EU) 2017/1132 of the European Parliament and of the Council of
14 June 2017 relating to certain aspects of company law (OJ L 169, 30.6.2017, p. 46).
Each Member State shall require that trustees of any express trust administered in that Member State obtain and hold adequate, accurate and up-to-date information on beneficial ownership regarding the trust. That information shall include the identity of:
(a) the settlor(s);
(b) the trustee(s);
(c) the protector(s) (if any);
(d) the beneficiaries or class of beneficiaries;
(e) any other natural person exercising effective control of the trust.
Member States shall ensure that breaches of this Article are subject to effective, proportionate and dissuasive measures or sanctions.
2. Member States shall ensure that trustees or persons holding equivalent positions in similar legal arrangements as referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, disclose their status and provide the information referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article to obliged entities in a timely manner, where, as a trustee or as person holding an equivalent position in a similar legal arrangement, they form a business relationship or carry out an occasional transaction above the thresholds set out in points (b), (c) and (d) of Article 11.
3. Member States shall require that the information referred to in paragraph 1 can be accessed in a timely manner by competent auth­ orities and FIUs.
3a. Member States shall require that the beneficial ownership information of express trusts and similar legal arrangements as referred to in paragraph 1 shall be held in a central beneficial ownership register set up by the Member State where the trustee of the trust or person holding an equivalent position in a similar legal arrangement is established or resides.
Where the place of establishment or residence of the trustee of the trust or person holding an equivalent position in similar legal arrangement is outside the Union, the information referred to in paragraph 1 shall be held in a central register set up by the Member State where the trustee of the trust or person holding an equivalent position in a similar legal arrangement enters into a business relationship or acquires real estate in the name of the trust or similar legal arrangement.
Where the trustees of a trust or persons holding equivalent positions in a similar legal arrangement are established or reside in different Member States, or where the trustee of the trust or person holding an equivalent position in a similar legal arrangement enters into multiple business relationships in the name of the trust or similar legal arrangement in different Member States, a certificate of proof of registration or an excerpt of the beneficial ownership information held in a register by one Member State may be considered as sufficient to consider the registration obligation fulfilled.
4. Member States shall ensure that the information on the beneficial ownership of a trust or a similar legal arrangement is accessible in all cases to:
(a) competent authorities and FIUs, without any restriction;
(b) obliged entities, within the framework of customer due diligence in
accordance with Chapter II;
(c) any natural or legal person that can demonstrate a legitimate interest
to access beneficial ownership information.
The information accessible to natural or legal persons referred to in point (c) of the first subparagraph shall consist of the name, the month and year of birth and the country of residence and nationality of the beneficial owner, as well as nature and extent of beneficial interest held.
Member States may, under conditions to be determined in national law, provide for access of additional information enabling the identification of the beneficial owner That additional information shall include at least the date of birth or contact details, in accordance with data protection rules. Member States may allow for wider access to the information held in the register in accordance with their national law.
Competent authorities granted access to the central register referred to in paragraph 3a shall be public authorities with designated responsibilities for combating money laundering or terrorist financing, as well as tax authorities, supervisors of obliged entities and authorities that have the function of investigating or prosecuting money laundering, associated predicate offences and terrorist financing, tracing, and seizing or freezing and confiscating criminal assets.
4a. Member States may choose to make the information held in their national registers referred to in paragraph 3a available on the condition of online registration and the payment of a fee, which shall not exceed the administrative costs of making the information available, including costs of maintenance and developments of the register.
5. Member States shall require that the information held in the central register referred to in paragraph 3a is adequate, accurate and current, and shall put in place mechanisms to this effect. Such mechanisms shall include requiring obliged entities and, if appropriate and to the extent that this requirement does not interfere unnecessarily with their functions, competent authorities to report any discrepancies they find between the beneficial ownership information available in the central registers and the beneficial ownership information available to them. In the case of reported discrepancies Member States shall ensure that appropriate actions be taken to resolve the discrepancies in a timely manner and, if appropriate, a specific mention be included in the central register in the meantime.
6. Member States shall ensure that obliged entities do not rely exclusively on the central register referred to in paragraph 4 to fulfil their customer due diligence requirements as laid down in Chapter II. Those requirements shall be fulfilled by using a risk-based approach.
7. Member States shall ensure that competent authorities and FIUs are able to provide the information referred to in paragraphs 1 and 3 to the competent authorities and to the FIUs of other Member States in a timely manner and free of charge.
7a. In exceptional circumstances to be laid down in national law, where the access referred to in points (b), (c) and (d) of the first subparagraph of paragraph 4 would expose the beneficial owner to disproportionate risk, risk of fraud, kidnapping, blackmail, extortion, harassment, violence or intimidation, or where the beneficial owner is a minor or otherwise legally incapable, Member States may provide for an exemption from such access to all or part of the information on the beneficial ownership on a case-by-case basis. Member States shall ensure that these exemptions are granted upon a detailed evaluation of the exceptional nature of the circumstances. Rights to an administra­ tive review of the exemption decision and to an effective judicial remedy shall be guaranteed. A Member State that has granted exemptions shall publish annual statistical data on the number of exemptions granted and reasons stated and report the data to the Commission.
Exemptions granted pursuant to the first subparagraph shall not apply to the credit institutions and financial institutions, and to obliged entities referred to in point (3)(b) of Article 2(1) that are public officials.
Where a Member State decides to establish an exemption in accordance with the first subparagraph, it shall not restrict access to information by competent authorities and FIUs.
__________
9. Member States shall ensure that the central registers referred to in paragraph 3a of this Article are interconnected via the European Central Platform established by Article 22(1) of Directive (EU) 2017/1132. The connection of the Member States’ central registers to the platform shall be set up in accordance with the technical specifications and procedures established by implementing acts adopted by the Commission in accordance with Article 24 of Directive (EU) 2017/1132 and with Article 31a of this Directive.
Member States shall ensure that the information referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article is available through the system of interconnection of registers established by Article 22(2) of Directive (EU) 2017/1132, in accordance with Member States’ national laws implementing paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Article.
Member States shall take adequate measures to ensure that only the information referred to in paragraph 1 that is up to date and corresponds to the actual beneficial ownership is made available through their national registers and through the system of interconnection of registers, and the access to that information shall be in accordance with data protection rules.
The information referred to in paragraph 1 shall be available through the national registers and through the system of interconnection of registers for at least five years and no more than 10 years after the grounds for registering the beneficial ownership information as referred to in paragraph 3a have ceased to exist. Member States shall cooperate with the Commission in order to implement the different types of access in accordance with paragraphs 4 and 4a.
10. Member States shall notify to the Commission the categories, description of the characteristics, names and, where applicable, legal basis of the trusts and similar legal arrangements referred to in paragraph 1 by 10 July 2019. The Commission shall publish the consolidated list of such trusts and similar legal arrangements in the Official Journal of the European Union by 10 September 2019.
By 26 June 2020, the Commission shall submit a report to the European Parliament and to the Council assessing whether all trusts and similar legal arrangements as referred to in paragraph 1 governed under the law of Member States were duly identified and made subject to the obli­ gations as set out in this Directive. Where appropriate, the Commission shall take the necessary steps to act upon the findings of that report.
Article 31a
Implementing acts
Where necessary in addition to the implementing acts adopted by the Commission in accordance with Article 24 of Directive (EU) 2017/1132 and in accordance with the scope of Article 30 and 31 of this Directive, the Commission shall adopt by means of implementing acts technical specifications and procedures necessary to provide for the intercon­ nection of Member States’ central registers as referred to in Article 30(10) and Article 31(9), with regard to:
(a) the technical specification defining the set of the technical data
necessary for the platform to perform its functions as well as the method of storage, use and protection of such data;
(b) the common criteria according to which beneficial ownership
information is available through the system of interconnection of registers, depending on the level of access granted by Member States;
(c) the technical details on how the information on beneficial owners is
to be made available;
(d) the technical conditions of availability of services provided by the
system of interconnection of registers;
(e) the technical modalities how to implement the different types of
access to information on beneficial ownership based on Article 30(5) and Article 31(4);
(f) the payment modalities where access to beneficial ownership
information is subject to the payment of a fee according to Article 30(5a) and Article 31(4a) taking into account available payment facilities such as remote payment transactions.
Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the exa­ mination procedure referred to in Article 64a(2).
In its implementing acts, the Commission shall strive to reuse proven technology and existing practices. The Commission shall ensure that the systems to be developed shall not incur costs above what is absolutely necessary in order to implement this Directive. The Commission’s im­ plementing acts shall be characterised by transparency and the exchange of experiences and information between the Commission and the Member States.
CHAPTER IV
REPORTING OBLIGATIONS
SECTION 1
General provisions
Article 32
1. Each Member State shall establish an FIU in order to prevent, detect and effectively combat money laundering and terrorist financing.
2. Member States shall notify the Commission in writing of the name and address of their respective FIUs.
3. Each FIU shall be operationally independent and autonomous, which means that the FIU shall have the authority and capacity to carry out its functions freely, including the ability to take autonomous decisions to analyse, request and disseminate specific information. The FIU as the central national unit shall be responsible for receiving and analysing suspicious transaction reports and other information relevant to money laundering, associated predicate offences or terrorist financing. The FIU shall be responsible for disseminating the results of its analyses and any additional relevant information to the competent authorities where there are grounds to suspect money laundering, associated predicate offences or terrorist financing. It shall be able to obtain ad­ ditional information from obliged entities.
Member States shall provide their FIUs with adequate financial, human and technical resources in order to fulfil their tasks.
4. Member States shall ensure that their FIUs have access, directly or indirectly, in a timely manner, to the financial, administrative and law enforcement information that they require to fulfil their tasks properly. FIUs shall be able to respond to requests for information by competent authorities in their respective Member States when such requests for information are motivated by concerns relating to money laundering, associated predicate offences or terrorist financing. The decision on conducting the analysis or dissemination of information shall remain with the FIU.
5. Where there are objective grounds for assuming that the provision of such information would have a negative impact on ongoing investi­ gations or analyses, or, in exceptional circumstances, where disclosure of the information would be clearly disproportionate to the legitimate interests of a natural or legal person or irrelevant with regard to the purposes for which it has been requested, the FIU shall be under no obligation to comply with the request for information.
6. Member States shall require competent authorities to provide feedback to the FIU about the use made of the information provided in accordance with this Article and about the outcome of the investi­ gations or inspections performed on the basis of that information.
7. Member States shall ensure that the FIU is empowered to take urgent action, directly or indirectly, where there is a suspicion that a transaction is related to money laundering or terrorist financing, to suspend or withhold consent to a transaction that is proceeding, in order to analyse the transaction, confirm the suspicion and disseminate the results of the analysis to the competent authorities. The FIU shall be empowered to take such action, directly or indirectly, at the request of an FIU from another Member State for the periods and under the conditions specified in the national law of the FIU receiving the request.
8. The FIU's analysis function shall consist of the following:
(a) an operational analysis which focuses on individual cases and
specific targets or on appropriate selected information, depending on the type and volume of the disclosures received and the expected use of the information after dissemination; and
(b) a strategic analysis addressing money laundering and terrorist
financing trends and patterns.
9. Without prejudice to Article 34(2), in the context of its functions, each FIU shall be able to request, obtain and use information from any obliged entity for the purpose set in paragraph 1 of this Article, even if no prior report is filed pursuant to Article 33(1)(a) or 34(1).
Article 32a
1. Member States shall put in place centralised automated mechanisms, such as central registries or central electronic data retrieval systems, which allow the identification, in a timely manner, of any natural or legal persons holding or controlling payment accounts and bank accounts identified by IBAN, as defined by Regulation (EU) No 260/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council ( 1 ), and safe-deposit boxes held by a credit institution within their territory. Member States shall notify the Commission of the characteristics of those national mechanisms.
( 1 ) Regulation (EU) No 260/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council
of 14 March 2012 establishing technical and business requirements for credit transfers and direct debits in euro and amending Regulation (EC) No 924/2009 (OJ L 94, 30.3.2012, p. 22).
2. Member States shall ensure that the information held in the centralised mechanisms referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article is directly accessible in an immediate and unfiltered manner to national FIUs. The information shall also be accessible to national competent authorities for fulfilling their obligations under this Directive. Member States shall ensure that any FIU is able to provide information held in the centralised mechanisms referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article to any other FIUs in a timely manner in accordance with Article 53.
3. The following information shall be accessible and searchable through the centralised mechanisms referred to in paragraph 1:
— for the customer-account holder and any person purporting to act on
behalf of the customer: the name, complemented by either the other identification data required under the national provisions transposing point (a) of Article 13(1) or a unique identification number;
— for the beneficial owner of the customer-account holder: the name,
complemented by either the other identification data required under the national provisions transposing point (b) of Article 13(1) or a unique identification number;
— for the bank or payment account: the IBAN number and the date of
account opening and closing;
— for the safe-deposit box: name of the lessee complemented by either
the other identification data required under the national provisions transposing Article 13(1) or a unique identification number and the duration of the lease period.
4. Member States may consider requiring other information deemed essential for FIUs and competent authorities for fulfilling their obli­ gations under this Directive to be accessible and searchable through the centralised mechanisms.
5. By 26 June 2020, the Commission shall submit a report to the European Parliament and to the Council assessing the conditions and the technical specifications and procedures for ensuring secure and efficient interconnection of the centralised automated mechanisms. Where appro­ priate, that report shall be accompanied by a legislative proposal.
Article 32b
1. Member States shall provide FIUs and competent authorities with access to information which allows the identification in a timely manner of any natural or legal persons owning real estate, including through registers or electronic data retrieval systems where such registers or systems are available.
2. By 31 December 2020, the Commission shall submit a report to the European Parliament and to the Council assessing the necessity and proportionality of harmonising the information included in the registers and assessing the need for the interconnection of those registers. Where appropriate, that report shall be accompanied by a legislative proposal.
Article 33
1. Member States shall require obliged entities, and, where applicable, their directors and employees, to cooperate fully by promptly:
(a) informing the FIU, including by filing a report, on their own
initiative, where the obliged entity knows, suspects or has reasonable grounds to suspect that funds, regardless of the amount involved, are the proceeds of criminal activity or are related to terrorist financing, and by promptly responding to requests by the FIU for additional information in such cases; and
(b) providing the FIU directly, at its request, with all necessary
information.
All suspicious transactions, including attempted transactions, shall be reported.
2. The person appointed in accordance with point (a) of Article 8(4) shall transmit the information referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article to the FIU of the Member State in whose territory the obliged entity transmitting the information is established.
Article 34
1. By way of derogation from Article 33(1), Member States may, in the case of obliged entities referred to in point (3)(a), (b) and (d) of Article 2(1), designate an appropriate self-regulatory body of the profession concerned as the authority to receive the information referred to in Article 33(1).
Without prejudice to paragraph 2, the designated self-regulatory body shall, in cases referred to in the first subparagraph of this paragraph, forward the information to the FIU promptly and unfiltered.
2. Member States shall not apply the obligations laid down in Article 33(1) to notaries, other independent legal professionals, auditors, external accountants and tax advisors only to the strict extent that such exemption relates to information that they receive from, or obtain on, one of their clients, in the course of ascertaining the legal position of their client, or performing their task of defending or representing that client in, or concerning, judicial proceedings, including providing advice on instituting or avoiding such proceedings, whether such information is received or obtained before, during or after such proceedings.
3. Self-regulatory bodies designated by Member States shall publish an annual report containing information about:
(a) measures taken under Articles 58, 59 and 60;
(b) number of reports of breaches received as referred to in Article 61,
where applicable;
(c) number of reports received by the self-regulatory body as referred to
in paragraph 1 and the number of reports forwarded by the self-regulatory body to the FIU where applicable;
(d) where applicable number and description of measures carried out
under Article 47 and 48 to monitor compliance by obliged entities with their obligations under:
(i) Articles 10 to 24 (customer due diligence);
(ii) Articles 33, 34 and 35 (suspicious transaction reporting);
(iii) Article 40 (record-keeping); and
(iv) Articles 45 and 46 (internal controls).
Article 35
1. Member States shall require obliged entities to refrain from carrying out transactions which they know or suspect to be related to proceeds of criminal activity or to terrorist financing until they have completed the necessary action in accordance with point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 33(1) and have complied with any further specific instructions from the FIU or the competent authorities in accordance with the law of the relevant Member State.
2. Where refraining from carrying out transactions referred to in paragraph 1 is impossible or is likely to frustrate efforts to pursue the beneficiaries of a suspected operation, the obliged entities concerned shall inform the FIU immediately afterwards.
Article 36
1. Member States shall ensure that if, in the course of checks carried out on the obliged entities by the competent authorities referred to in Article 48, or in any other way, those authorities discover facts that could be related to money laundering or to terrorist financing, they shall promptly inform the FIU.
2. Member States shall ensure that supervisory bodies empowered by law or regulation to oversee the stock, foreign exchange and financial derivatives markets inform the FIU if they discover facts that could be related to money laundering or terrorist financing.
Article 37
Disclosure of information in good faith by an obliged entity or by an employee or director of such an obliged entity in accordance with Articles 33 and 34 shall not constitute a breach of any restriction on disclosure of information imposed by contract or by any legislative, regulatory or administrative provision, and shall not involve the obliged entity or its directors or employees in liability of any kind even in circumstances where they were not precisely aware of the underlying criminal activity and regardless of whether illegal activity actually occurred.
Article 38
1. Member States shall ensure that individuals, including employees and representatives of the obliged entity who report suspicions of money laundering or terrorist financing internally or to the FIU, are legally protected from being exposed to threats, retaliatory or hostile action, and in particular from adverse or discriminatory employment actions.
2. Member States shall ensure that individuals who are exposed to threats, retaliatory or hostile actions, or adverse or discriminatory employment actions for reporting suspicions of money laundering or terrorist financing internally or to the FIU are entitled to present a complaint in a safe manner to the respective competent authorities. Without prejudice to the confidentiality of information gathered by the FIU, Member States shall also ensure that such individuals have the right to an effective remedy to safeguard their rights under this paragraph.
SECTION 2
Prohibition of disclosure
Article 39
1. Obliged entities and their directors and employees shall not disclose to the customer concerned or to other third persons the fact that information is being, will be or has been transmitted in accordance with Article 33 or 34 or that a money laundering or terrorist financing analysis is being, or may be, carried out.
2. The prohibition laid down in paragraph 1 shall not include disclosure to the competent authorities, including the self-regulatory bodies, or disclosure for law enforcement purposes.
3. The prohibition laid down in paragraph 1 of this Article shall not prevent disclosure between the credit institutions and financial insti­ tutions from the Member States provided that they belong to the same group, or between those entities and their branches and majority owned subsidiaries established in third countries, provided that those branches and majority-owned subsidiaries fully comply with the group-wide policies and procedures, including procedures for sharing information within the group, in accordance with Article 45, and that the group-wide policies and procedures comply with the requirements set out in this Directive.
4. The prohibition laid down in paragraph 1 shall not prevent disclosure between the obliged entities as referred to in point (3)(a) and (b) of Article 2(1), or entities from third countries which impose requirements equivalent to those laid down in this Directive, who perform their professional activities, whether as employees or not, within the same legal person or a larger structure to which the person belongs and which shares common ownership, management or compliance control.
5. For obliged entities referred to in points (1), (2), (3)(a) and (b) of Article 2(1) in cases relating to the same customer and the same trans­ action involving two or more obliged entities, the prohibition laid down in paragraph 1 of this Article shall not prevent disclosure between the relevant obliged entities provided that they are from a Member State, or entities in a third country which imposes requirements equivalent to those laid down in this Directive, and that they are from the same professional category and are subject to obligations as regards profes­ sional secrecy and personal data protection.
6. Where the obliged entities referred to in point (3)(a) and (b) of Article 2(1) seek to dissuade a client from engaging in illegal activity, that shall not constitute disclosure within the meaning of paragraph 1 of this Article.
CHAPTER V
DATA PROTECTION, RECORD-RETENTION AND STATISTICAL
DATA
Article 40
1. Member States shall require obliged entities to retain the following documents and information in accordance with national law for the purpose of preventing, detecting and investigating, by the FIU or by other competent authorities, possible money laundering or terrorist financing:
(a) in the case of customer due diligence, a copy of the documents and
information which are necessary to comply with the customer due diligence requirements laid down in Chapter II, including, where available, information obtained through electronic identification means, relevant trust services as set out in Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 or any other secure, remote or electronic, identifi­ cation process regulated, recognised, approved or accepted by the relevant national authorities, for a period of five years after the end of the business relationship with their customer or after the date of an occasional transaction;
(b) the supporting evidence and records of transactions, consisting of
the original documents or copies admissible in judicial proceedings under the applicable national law, which are necessary to identify transactions, for a period of five years after the end of a business relationship with their customer or after the date of an occasional transaction.
Upon expiry of the retention periods referred to in the first subparagraph, Member States shall ensure that obliged entities delete personal data, unless otherwise provided for by national law, which shall determine under which circumstances obliged entities may or shall further retain data. Member States may allow or require further retention after they have carried out a thorough assessment of the necessity and proportionality of such further retention and consider it to be justified as necessary for the prevention, detection or investigation of money laundering or terrorist financing. That further retention period shall not exceed five additional years.
The retention period referred to in this paragraph, including the further retention period that shall not exceed five additional years, shall also apply in respect of the data accessible through the centralised mechanisms referred to in Article 32a.
2. Where, on 25 June 2015, legal proceedings concerned with the prevention, detection, investigation or prosecution of suspected money laundering or terrorist financing are pending in a Member State, and an obliged entity holds information or documents relating to those pending proceedings, the obliged entity may retain that information or those documents, in accordance with national law, for a period of five years from 25 June 2015. Member States may, without prejudice to national criminal law on evidence applicable to ongoing criminal inves­ tigations and legal proceedings, allow or require the retention of such information or documents for a further period of five years where the necessity and proportionality of such further retention has been estab­ lished for the prevention, detection, investigation or prosecution of suspected money laundering or terrorist financing.
Article 41
1. The processing of personal data under this Directive is subject to Regulations (EU) 2016/679 ( 1 ) and (EU) 2018/1725 ( 2 ) of the European Parliament and of the Council.
2. Personal data shall be processed by obliged entities on the basis of this Directive only for the purposes of the prevention of money laun­ dering and terrorist financing as referred to in Article 1 and shall not be further processed in a way that is incompatible with those purposes. The processing of personal data on the basis of this Directive for any other purposes, such as commercial purposes, shall be prohibited.
3. Obliged entities shall provide new clients with the information required pursuant to Article 10 of Directive 95/46/EC before estab­ lishing a business relationship or carrying out an occasional transaction. That information shall, in particular, include a general notice concerning the legal obligations of obliged entities under this Directive to process personal data for the purposes of the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing as referred to in Article 1 of this Directive.
( 1 ) Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of
27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) (OJ L 119, 4.5.2016, p. 1). ( 2 ) Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 of the European Parliament and of the Council of
23 October 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the Union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 and Decision No 1247/2002/EC (OJ L 295, 21.11.2018, p. 39).
4. In applying the prohibition of disclosure laid down in Article 39(1), Member States shall adopt legislative measures restricting, in whole or in part, the data subject's right of access to personal data relating to him or her to the extent that such partial or complete restriction constitutes a necessary and proportionate measure in a democratic society with due regard for the legitimate interests of the person concerned to:
(a) enable the obliged entity or competent national authority to fulfil its
tasks properly for the purposes of this Directive; or
(b) avoid obstructing official or legal inquiries, analyses, investigations
or procedures for the purposes of this Directive and to ensure that the prevention, investigation and detection of money laundering and terrorist financing is not jeopardised.
Article 42
Member States shall require that their obliged entities have systems in place that enable them to respond fully and speedily to enquiries from their FIU or from other authorities, in accordance with their national law, as to whether they are maintaining or have maintained, during a five-year period prior to that enquiry a business relationship with specified persons, and on the nature of that relationship, through secure channels and in a manner that ensures full confidentiality of the enquiries.
Article 43
The processing of personal data on the basis of this Directive for the purposes of the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing as referred to in Article 1 shall be considered to be a matter of public interest under Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council ( 1 ).
Article 44
1. Member States shall, for the purposes of contributing to the prep­ aration of risk assessment pursuant to Article 7, ensure that they are able to review the effectiveness of their systems to combat money laundering or terrorist financing by maintaining comprehensive statistics on matters relevant to the effectiveness of such systems.
2. The statistics referred to in paragraph 1 shall include:
(a) data measuring the size and importance of the different sectors
which fall within the scope of this Directive, including the number of natural persons and entities and the economic importance of each sector;
( 1 ) Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of
27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) (OJ L 119, 4.5.2016, p. 1).
(b) data measuring the reporting, investigation and judicial phases of
the national AML/CFT regime, including the number of suspicious transaction reports made to the FIU, the follow-up given to those reports and, on an annual basis, the number of cases investigated, the number of persons prosecuted, the number of persons convicted for money laundering or terrorist financing offences, the types of predicate offences, where such information is available, and the value in euro of property that has been frozen, seized or confiscated;
(c) if available, data identifying the number and percentage of reports
resulting in further investigation, together with the annual report to obliged entities detailing the usefulness and follow-up of the reports they presented;
(d) data regarding the number of cross-border requests for information
that were made, received, refused and partially or fully answered by the FIU, broken down by counterpart country;
(e) human resources allocated to competent authorities responsible for
AML/CFT supervision as well as human resources allocated to the FIU to fulfil the tasks specified in Article 32;
(f) the number of on-site and off-site supervisory actions, the number
of breaches identified on the basis of supervisory actions and sanctions/administrative measures applied by supervisory authorities.
3. Member States shall ensure that a consolidated review of their statistics is published on an annual basis.
4. Member States shall transmit annually to the Commission the statistics referred to in paragraph 2. The Commission shall publish an annual report summarising and explaining the statistics referred to in paragraph 2, which shall be made available on its website.
CHAPTER VI
POLICIES, PROCEDURES AND SUPERVISION
SECTION 1
Internal procedures, training and feedback
Article 45
1. Member States shall require obliged entities that are part of a group to implement group-wide policies and procedures, including data protection policies and policies and procedures for sharing information within the group for AML/CFT purposes. Those policies and procedures shall be implemented effectively at the level of branches and majority-owned subsidiaries in Member States and third countries.
2. Member States shall require that obliged entities that operate establishments in another Member State ensure that those establishments respect the national provisions of that other Member State transposing this Directive.
3. Member States shall ensure that where obliged entities have branches or majority-owned subsidiaries located in third countries where the minimum AML/CFT requirements are less strict than those of the Member State, their branches and majority-owned subsidiaries located in the third country implement the requirements of the Member State, including data protection, to the extent that the third country's law so allows.
4. The Member States and EBA shall inform each other of instances in which the law of a third country does not permit the implementation of the policies and procedures required under paragraph 1. In such cases, coordinated actions may be taken to pursue a solution. In assessing which third countries do not permit the implementation of the policies and procedures required under paragraph 1, Member States and EBA shall take into account any legal constraints that may hinder the proper implementation of those policies and procedures, including secrecy, data protection and other constraints limiting the exchange of information that may be relevant for that purpose.
5. Member States shall require that, where a third country's law does not permit the implementation of the policies and procedures required under paragraph 1, obliged entities ensure that branches and majority-owned subsidiaries in that third country apply additional measures to effectively handle the risk of money laundering or terrorist financing, and inform the competent authorities of their home Member State. If the additional measures are not sufficient, the competent authorities of the home Member State shall exercise ad­ ditional supervisory actions, including requiring that the group does not establish or that it terminates business relationships, and does not undertake transactions and, where necessary, requesting the group to close down its operations in the third country.
6. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards specifying the type of additional measures referred to in paragraph 5 and the minimum action to be taken by credit institutions and financial insti­ tutions where a third country’s law does not permit the implementation of the measures required under paragraphs 1 and 3.
EBA shall submit the draft regulatory technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph to the Commission by 26 December 2016.
7. Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory technical standards referred to in paragraph 6 of this Article in accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010.
8. Member States shall ensure that the sharing of information within the group is allowed. Information on suspicions that funds are the proceeds of criminal activity or are related to terrorist financing reported to the FIU shall be shared within the group, unless otherwise instructed by the FIU.
9. Member States may require electronic money issuers as defined in Article 2, point (3), of Directive 2009/110/EC, payment service providers as defined in Article 4, point (11), of Directive (EU) 2015/2366 and crypto-asset service providers established on their territory in forms other than a branch, and whose head office is situated in another Member State, to appoint a central contact point in their territory. That central contact point shall ensure, on behalf of the entity operating on a cross-border basis, compliance with AML/CFT rules and shall facilitate supervision by supervisors, including by providing supervisors with documents and information on request.
10. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards on the criteria for determining the circumstances in which the appointment of a central contact point pursuant to paragraph 9 is appropriate, and what the functions of the central contact points should be.
EBA shall submit the draft regulatory technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph to the Commission by 26 June 2017.
11. Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory technical standards referred to in paragraph 10 of this Article in accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010.
Article 46
1. Member States shall require that obliged entities take measures proportionate to their risks, nature and size so that their employees are aware of the provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive, including relevant data protection requirements.
Those measures shall include participation of their employees in special ongoing training programmes to help them recognise operations which may be related to money laundering or terrorist financing and to instruct them as to how to proceed in such cases.
Where a natural person falling within any of the categories listed in point (3) of Article 2(1) performs professional activities as an employee of a legal person, the obligations in this Section shall apply to that legal person rather than to the natural person.
2. Member States shall ensure that obliged entities have access to up-to-date information on the practices of money launderers and financers of terrorism and on indications leading to the recognition of suspicious transactions.
3. Member States shall ensure that, where practicable, timely feedback on the effectiveness of and follow-up to reports of suspected money laundering or terrorist financing is provided to obliged entities.
4. Member States shall require that, where applicable, obliged entities identify the member of the management board who is responsible for the implementation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive.
SECTION 2
Supervision
Article 47
1. Member States shall ensure that currency exchange and cheque-cashing offices and trust or company service providers are licensed or registered, and that providers of gambling services are regulated.
2. Member States shall require competent authorities to ensure that the persons who hold a management function in the entities referred to in paragraph 1, or are the beneficial owners of such entities, are fit and proper persons.
3. With respect to the obliged entities referred to in point (3)(a), (b) and (d) of Article 2(1), Member States shall ensure that competent authorities take the necessary measures to prevent criminals convicted in relevant areas or their associates from holding a management function in or being the beneficial owners of those obliged entities.
Article 48
1. Member States shall require the competent authorities to monitor effectively, and to take the measures necessary to ensure, compliance with this Directive.
1a. In order to facilitate and promote effective cooperation, and in particular the exchange of information, Member States shall communicate to the Commission the list of competent authorities of the obliged entities listed in Article 2(1), including their contact details. Member States shall ensure that the information provided to the Commission remains updated.
The Commission shall publish a register of those authorities and their contact details on its website. The authorities in the register shall, within the scope of their powers, serve as a contact point for the counterpart competent authorities of the other Member States. ►M2 The financial supervisory authorities of the Member States shall also serve as a contact point for EBA. ◄
In order to ensure the adequate enforcement of this Directive, Member States shall require that all obliged entities are subject to adequate supervision, including the powers to conduct on-site and off-site super­ vision, and shall take appropriate and proportionate administrative measures to remedy the situation in the case of breaches.
2. Member States shall ensure that the competent authorities have adequate powers, including the power to compel the production of any information that is relevant to monitoring compliance and perform checks, and have adequate financial, human and technical resources to perform their functions. Member States shall ensure that staff of those authorities are of high integrity and appropriately skilled, and maintain high professional standards, including standards of confi­ dentiality, data protection and standards addressing conflicts of interest.
3. In the case of credit institutions, financial institutions, and providers of gambling services, competent authorities shall have enhanced supervisory powers.
4. Member States shall ensure that competent authorities of the Member State in which the obliged entity operates establishments supervise the respect by those establishments of the national provisions of that Member State transposing this Directive.
In the case of credit and financial institutions that are part of a group, Member States shall ensure that, for the purposes laid down in the first subparagraph, the competent authorities of the Member State where a parent undertaking is established cooperate with the competent auth­ orities of the Member States where the establishments that are part of group are established.
In the case of the establishments referred to in Article 45(9), supervision as referred to in the first subparagraph of this paragraph may include the taking of appropriate and proportionate measures to address serious failings that require immediate remedies. Those measures shall be temporary and be terminated when the failings identified are addressed, including with the assistance of or in cooperation with the competent authorities of the home Member State of the obliged entity, in accordance with Article 45(2).
5. Member States shall ensure that the competent authorities of the Member State in which the obliged entity operates establishments shall cooperate with the competent authorities of the Member State in which the obliged entity has its head office, to ensure effective supervision of the requirements of this Directive.
In the case of credit and financial institutions that are part of a group, Member States shall ensure that the competent authorities of the Member State where a parent undertaking is established supervise the effective implementation of the group-wide policies and procedures referred to in Article 45(1). For that purpose, Member States shall ensure that the competent authorities of the Member State where credit and financial institutions that are part of the group are established cooperate with the competent authorities of the Member State where the parent undertaking is established.
6. Member States shall ensure that when applying a risk-based approach to supervision, the competent authorities:
(a) have a clear understanding of the risks of money laundering and
terrorist financing present in their Member State;
(b) have on-site and off-site access to all relevant information on the
specific domestic and international risks associated with customers, products and services of the obliged entities; and
(c) base the frequency and intensity of on-site and off-site supervision
on the risk profile of obliged entities, and on the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing in that Member State.
7. The assessment of the money laundering and terrorist financing risk profile of obliged entities, including the risks of non-compliance, shall be reviewed both periodically and when there are major events or developments in their management and operations.
8. Member States shall ensure that competent authorities take into account the degree of discretion allowed to the obliged entity, and appropriately review the risk assessments underlying this discretion, and the adequacy and implementation of its internal policies, controls and procedures.
9. In the case of the obliged entities referred to in point (3)(a), (b) and (d) of Article 2(1), Member States may allow the functions referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article to be performed by self-regulatory bodies, provided that those self-regulatory bodies comply with paragraph 2 of this Article.
10. ►M2 By 26 June 2017, the ESAs shall issue guidelines, addressed to competent authorities, in accordance with Article 16 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, on the characteristics of a risk-based approach to supervision and the steps to be taken when conducting supervision on a risk-based basis. From 1 January 2020, EBA shall, where appropriate, issue such guidelines. ◄ Specific account shall be taken of the nature and size of the business, and, where appropriate and proportionate, specific measures shall be laid down.
SECTION 3
Cooperation
SubsectionI
Nationalcooperation
Article 49
Member States shall ensure that policy makers, the FIUs, supervisors and other competent authorities involved in AML/CFT, as well as tax authorities and law enforcement authorities when acting within the scope of this Directive, have effective mechanisms to enable them to cooperate and coordinate domestically concerning the development and implementation of policies and activities to combat money laundering and terrorist financing, including with a view to fulfilling their obli­ gation under Article 7.
SubsectionII
CooperationwithEBA
Article 50
The competent authorities shall provide EBA with all the information necessary to allow it to carry out its duties under this Directive.
SubsectionIIa
Cooperationbetweencompetentauthoritiesof
theMemberStates
Article 50a
Member States shall not prohibit or place unreasonable or unduly restrictive conditions on the exchange of information or assistance between competent authorities for the purposes of this Directive. In particular Member States shall ensure that competent authorities do not refuse a request for assistance on the grounds that:
(a) the request is also considered to involve tax matters;
(b) national law requires obliged entities to maintain secrecy or confi­
dentiality, except in those cases where the relevant information that is sought is protected by legal privilege or where legal professional secrecy applies, as described in Article 34(2);
(c) there is an inquiry, investigation or proceeding underway in the
requested Member State, unless the assistance would impede that inquiry, investigation or proceeding;
(d) the nature or status of the requesting counterpart competent
authority is different from that of requested competent authority.
SubsectionIII
CooperationbetweenFIUsandwiththeCommission
Article 51
The Commission may lend such assistance as may be needed to facilitate coordination, including the exchange of information between FIUs within the Union. It may regularly convene meetings of the EU FIUs' Platform composed of representatives from Member States' FIUs, in order to facilitate cooperation among FIUs, exchange views and provide advice on implementation issues relevant for FIUs and reporting entities as well as on cooperation-related issues such as effective FIU cooperation, the identification of suspicious transactions with a cross-border dimension, the standardisation of reporting formats through the FIU.net or its successor, the joint analysis of cross-border cases, and the identification of trends and factors relevant to assessing the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing at national and supranational level.
Article 52
Member States shall ensure that FIUs cooperate with each other to the greatest extent possible, regardless of their organisational status.
Article 53
1. Member States shall ensure that FIUs exchange, spontaneously or upon request, any information that may be relevant for the processing or analysis of information by the FIU related to money laundering or terrorist financing and the natural or legal person involved, regardless of the type of associated predicate offences and even if the type of associated predicate offences is not identified at the time of the exchange.
A request shall contain the relevant facts, background information, reasons for the request and how the information sought will be used. Different exchange mechanisms may apply if so agreed between the FIUs, in particular as regards exchanges through the FIU.net or its successor.
When an FIU receives a report pursuant to point (a) of the first sub­ paragraph of Article 33(1) which concerns another Member State, it shall promptly forward it to the FIU of that Member State.
2. Member States shall ensure that the FIU to whom the request is made is required to use the whole range of its available powers which it would normally use domestically for receiving and analysing information when it replies to a request for information referred to in paragraph 1 from another FIU. The FIU to whom the request is made shall respond in a timely manner.
When an FIU seeks to obtain additional information from an obliged entity established in another Member State which operates on its territory, the request shall be addressed to the FIU of the Member State in whose territory the obliged entity is established. ►M1 That FIU shall obtain information in accordance with Article 33(1) and transfer the answers promptly. ◄
3. An FIU may refuse to exchange information only in exceptional circumstances where the exchange could be contrary to fundamental principles of its national law. Those exceptions shall be specified in a way which prevents misuse of, and undue limitations on, the free exchange of information for analytical purposes.
Article 54
Information and documents received pursuant to Articles 52 and 53 shall be used for the accomplishment of the FIU's tasks as laid down in this Directive. When exchanging information and documents pursuant to Articles 52 and 53, the transmitting FIU may impose restrictions and conditions for the use of that information. The receiving FIU shall comply with those restrictions and conditions.
Member States shall ensure that FIUs designate at least one contact person or point to be responsible for receiving requests for information from FIUs in other Member States.
Article 55
1. Member States shall ensure that the information exchanged pursuant to Articles 52 and 53 is used only for the purpose for which it was sought or provided and that any dissemination of that information by the receiving FIU to any other authority, agency or department, or any use of this information for purposes beyond those originally approved, is made subject to the prior consent by the FIU providing the information.
2. Member States shall ensure that the requested FIU’s prior consent to disseminate the information to competent authorities is granted promptly and to the largest extent possible, regardless of the type of associated predicate offences. The requested FIU shall not refuse its consent to such dissemination unless this would fall beyond the scope of application of its AML/CFT provisions or could lead to impairment of an investigation, or would otherwise not be in accordance with fundamental principles of national law of that Member State. Any such refusal to grant consent shall be appropriately explained. Those exceptions shall be specified in a way which prevents misuse of, and undue limitations to, the dissemination of information to competent authorities.
Article 56
1. Member States shall require their FIUs to use protected channels of communication between themselves and encourage the use of the FIU.net or its successor.
2. Member States shall ensure that, in order to fulfil their tasks as laid down in this Directive, their FIUs cooperate in the application of state-of-the-art technologies in accordance with their national law. Those technologies shall allow FIUs to match their data with that of other FIUs in an anonymous way by ensuring full protection of personal data with the aim of detecting subjects of the FIU's interests in other Member States and identifying their proceeds and funds.
Article 57
Differences between national law definitions of predicate offences as referred to in point 4 of Article 3 shall not impede the ability of FIUs to provide assistance to another FIU and shall not limit the exchange, dissemination and the use of information pursuant to Articles 53, 54 and 55.
SubsectionIIIa
Cooperationbetweencompetentauthoritiessupervisingcreditandfinancialinstitutionsandotherauthoritiesboundbyprofessionalsecrecy
Article 57a
1. Member States shall require that all persons working for or who have worked for competent authorities supervising credit and financial institutions for compliance with this Directive and auditors or experts acting on behalf of such competent authorities shall be bound by the obligation of professional secrecy.
Without prejudice to cases covered by criminal law, confidential information which the persons referred to in the first subparagraph receive in the course of their duties under this Directive may be disclosed only in summary or aggregate form, in such a way that individual credit and financial institutions cannot be identified.
2. Paragraph 1 shall not prevent the exchange of information between:
(a) competent authorities supervising credit and financial institutions
within a Member State in accordance with this Directive or other legislative acts relating to the supervision of credit and financial institutions;
(b) competent authorities supervising credit and financial institutions in
different Member States in accordance with this Directive or other legislative acts relating to the supervision of credit and financial institutions, including the European Central Bank (ECB) acting in accordance with Council Regulation (EU) No 1024/2013 ( 1 ). That exchange of information shall be subject to the conditions of profes­ sional secrecy indicated in paragraph 1.
By 10 January 2019, the competent authorities supervising credit and financial institutions in accordance with this Directive and the ECB, acting pursuant to Article 27(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1024/2013 and point (g) of the first subparagraph of Article 56 of Directive 2013/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council ( 2 ), shall conclude, with the support of the European Supervisory Authorities, an agreement on the practical modalities for exchange of information.
( 1 ) Council Regulation (EU) No 1024/2013 of 15 October 2013 conferring
specific tasks on the European Central Bank concerning policies relating to the prudential supervision of credit institutions (OJ L 287, 29.10.2013, p. 63). ( 2 ) Directive 2013/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of
26 June 2013 on access to the activity of credit institutions and the prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms, amending Directive 2002/87/EC and repealing Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/49/EC (OJ L 176, 27.6.2013, p. 338).
3. Competent authorities supervising credit and financial institutions receiving confidential information as referred to in paragraph 1, shall only use this information:
(a) in the discharge of their duties under this Directive or under other
legislative acts in the field of AML/CFT, of prudential regulation and of supervising credit and financial institutions, including sanctioning;
(b) in an appeal against a decision of the competent authority super­
vising credit and financial institutions, including court proceedings;
(c) in court proceedings initiated pursuant to special provisions
provided for in Union law adopted in the field of this Directive or in the field of prudential regulation and supervision of credit and financial institutions.
4. Member States shall ensure that competent authorities supervising credit and financial institutions cooperate with each other for the purposes of this Directive to the greatest extent possible, regardless of their respective nature or status. Such cooperation also includes the ability to conduct, within the powers of the requested competent authority, inquiries on behalf of a requesting competent authority, and the subsequent exchange of the information obtained through such inquiries.
5. Member States may authorise their national competent authorities which supervise credit and financial institutions to conclude cooperation agreements providing for collaboration and exchanges of confidential information with the competent authorities of third countries that constitute counterparts of those national competent authorities. Such cooperation agreements shall be concluded on the basis of reciprocity and only if the information disclosed is subject to a guarantee of profes­ sional secrecy requirements at least equivalent to that referred to in paragraph 1. Confidential information exchanged according to those cooperation agreements shall be used for the purpose of performing the supervisory task of those authorities.
Where the information exchanged originates in another Member State, it shall only be disclosed with the explicit consent of the competent authority which shared it and, where appropriate, solely for the purposes for which that authority gave its consent.
Article 57b
1. Notwithstanding Article 57a(1) and (3) and without prejudice to Article 34(2), Member States may authorise the exchange of information between competent authorities in the same Member State or in different Member States, between the competent authorities and authorities entrusted with the supervision of financial sector entities and natural or legal persons acting in the exercise of their professional activities as referred to in point (3) of Article 2(1) and the authorities responsible by law for the supervision of financial markets in the discharge of their respective supervisory functions.
The information received shall in any event be subject to professional secrecy requirements at least equivalent to those referred to in Article 57a(1).
2. Notwithstanding Article 57a(1) and (3), Member States may, by virtue of provisions laid down in national law, authorise the disclosure of certain information to other national authorities responsible by law for the supervision of the financial markets, or with designated respon­ sibilities in the field of combating or investigation of money laundering, the associated predicate offences or terrorist financing.
However, confidential information exchanged according to this paragraph shall only be used for the purpose of performing the legal tasks of the authorities concerned. Persons having access to such information shall be subject to professional secrecy requirements at least equivalent to those referred to in Article 57a(1).
3. Member States may authorise the disclosure of certain information relating to the supervision of credit institutions for compliance with this Directive to Parliamentary inquiry committees, courts of auditors and other entities in charge of enquiries, in their Member State, under the following conditions:
(a) the entities have a precise mandate under national law to investigate
or scrutinise the actions of authorities responsible for the super­ vision of those credit institutions or for laws on such supervision;
(b) the information is strictly necessary for fulfilling the mandate
referred to in point (a);
(c) the persons with access to the information are subject to profes­
sional secrecy requirements under national law at least equivalent to those referred to in Article 57a(1);
(d) where the information originates in another Member State, it shall
not be disclosed without the express consent of the competent auth­ orities which have disclosed it and, solely for the purposes for which those authorities gave their consent.
SECTION 4
Sanctions
Article 58
1. Member States shall ensure that obliged entities can be held liable for breaches of national provisions transposing this Directive in accordance with this Article and Articles 59 to 61. Any resulting sanction or measure shall be effective, proportionate and dissuasive.
2. Without prejudice to the right of Member States to provide for and impose criminal sanctions, Member States shall lay down rules on administrative sanctions and measures and ensure that their competent authorities may impose such sanctions and measures with respect to breaches of the national provisions transposing this Directive, and shall ensure that they are applied.
Member States may decide not to lay down rules for administrative sanctions or measures for breaches which are subject to criminal sanctions in their national law. In that case, Member States shall communicate to the Commission the relevant criminal law provisions.
Member States shall further ensure that where their competent auth­ orities identify breaches which are subject to criminal sanctions, they inform the law enforcement authorities in a timely manner.
3. Member States shall ensure that where obligations apply to legal persons in the event of a breach of national provisions transposing this Directive, sanctions and measures can be applied to the members of the management body and to other natural persons who under national law are responsible for the breach.
4. Member States shall ensure that the competent authorities have all the supervisory and investigatory powers that are necessary for the exercise of their functions.
5. Competent authorities shall exercise their powers to impose administrative sanctions and measures in accordance with this Directive, and with national law, in any of the following ways:
(a) directly;
(b) in collaboration with other authorities;
(c) under their responsibility by delegation to such other authorities;
(d) by application to the competent judicial authorities.
In the exercise of their powers to impose administrative sanctions and measures, competent authorities shall cooperate closely in order to ensure that those administrative sanctions or measures produce the desired results and coordinate their action when dealing with cross-border cases.
Article 59
1. Member States shall ensure that this Article applies at least to breaches on the part of obliged entities that are serious, repeated, systematic, or a combination thereof, of the requirements laid down in:
(a) Articles 10 to 24 (customer due diligence);
(b) Articles 33, 34 and 35 (suspicious transaction reporting);
(c) Article 40 (record-keeping); and
(d) Articles 45 and 46 (internal controls).
2. Member States shall ensure that in the cases referred to in paragraph 1, the administrative sanctions and measures that can be applied include at least the following:
(a) a public statement which identifies the natural or legal person and
the nature of the breach;
(b) an order requiring the natural or legal person to cease the conduct
and to desist from repetition of that conduct;
(c) where an obliged entity is subject to an authorisation, withdrawal or
suspension of the authorisation;
(d) a temporary ban against any person discharging managerial respon­
sibilities in an obliged entity, or any other natural person, held responsible for the breach, from exercising managerial functions in obliged entities;
(e) maximum administrative pecuniary sanctions of at least twice the
amount of the benefit derived from the breach where that benefit can be determined, or at least EUR 1 000 000.
3. Member States shall ensure that, by way of derogation from paragraph 2(e), where the obliged entity concerned is a credit institution or financial institution, the following sanctions can also be applied:
(a) in the case of a legal person, maximum administrative pecuniary
sanctions of at least EUR 5 000 000 or 10 % of the total annual turnover according to the latest available accounts approved by the management body; where the obliged entity is a parent undertaking or a subsidiary of a parent undertaking which is required to prepare consolidated financial accounts in accordance with Article 22 of Directive 2013/34/EU, the relevant total annual turnover shall be the total annual turnover or the corresponding type of income in accordance with the relevant accounting Directives according to the last available consolidated accounts approved by the management body of the ultimate parent undertaking;
(b) in the case of a natural person, maximum administrative pecuniary
sanctions of at least EUR 5 000 000, or in the Member States whose currency is not the euro, the corresponding value in the national currency on 25 June 2015.
4. Member States may empower competent authorities to impose additional types of administrative sanctions in addition to those referred to in points (a) to (d) of paragraph 2 or to impose administra­ tive pecuniary sanctions exceeding the amounts referred to in point (e) of paragraph 2 and in paragraph 3.
Article 60
1. Member States shall ensure that a decision imposing an adminis­ trative sanction or measure for breach of the national provisions trans­ posing this Directive against which there is no appeal shall be published by the competent authorities on their official website immediately after the person sanctioned is informed of that decision. The publication shall include at least information on the type and nature of the breach and the identity of the persons responsible. Member States shall not be obliged to apply this subparagraph to decisions imposing measures that are of an investigatory nature.
Where the publication of the identity of the persons responsible as referred to in the first subparagraph or the personal data of such persons is considered by the competent authority to be disproportionate following a case-by-case assessment conducted on the proportionality of the publication of such data, or where publication jeopardises the stability of financial markets or an on-going investigation, competent authorities shall:
(a) delay the publication of the decision to impose an administrative
sanction or measure until the moment at which the reasons for not publishing it cease to exist;
(b) publish the decision to impose an administrative sanction or
measure on an anonymous basis in a manner in accordance with national law, if such anonymous publication ensures an effective protection of the personal data concerned; in the case of a decision to publish an administrative sanction or measure on an anonymous basis, the publication of the relevant data may be postponed for a reasonable period of time if it is foreseen that within that period the reasons for anonymous publication shall cease to exist;
(c) not publish the decision to impose an administrative sanction or
measure at all in the event that the options set out in points (a) and (b) are considered insufficient to ensure:
(i) that the stability of financial markets would not be put in
jeopardy; or
(ii) the proportionality of the publication of the decision with regard
to measures which are deemed to be of a minor nature.
2. Where Member States permit publication of decisions against which there is an appeal, competent authorities shall also publish, immediately, on their official website such information and any subsequent information on the outcome of such appeal. Moreover, any decision annulling a previous decision to impose an administrative sanction or a measure shall also be published.
3. Competent authorities shall ensure that any publication in accordance with this Article shall remain on their official website for a period of five years after its publication. However, personal data contained in the publication shall only be kept on the official website of the competent authority for the period which is necessary in accordance with the applicable data protection rules.
4. Member States shall ensure that when determining the type and level of administrative sanctions or measures, the competent authorities shall take into account all relevant circumstances, including where applicable:
(a) the gravity and the duration of the breach;
(b) the degree of responsibility of the natural or legal person held
responsible;
(c) the financial strength of the natural or legal person held responsible,
as indicated for example by the total turnover of the legal person held responsible or the annual income of the natural person held responsible;
(d) the benefit derived from the breach by the natural or legal person
held responsible, insofar as it can be determined;
(e) the losses to third parties caused by the breach, insofar as they can
be determined;
(f) the level of cooperation of the natural or legal person held
responsible with the competent authority;
(g) previous breaches by the natural or legal person held responsible.
5. Member States shall ensure that legal persons can be held liable for the breaches referred to in Article 59(1) committed for their benefit by any person, acting individually or as part of an organ of that legal person, and having a leading position within the legal person based on any of the following:
(a) power to represent the legal person;
(b) authority to take decisions on behalf of the legal person; or
(c) authority to exercise control within the legal person.
6. Member States shall also ensure that legal persons can be held liable where the lack of supervision or control by a person referred to in paragraph 5 of this Article has made it possible to commit one of the breaches referred to in Article 59(1) for the benefit of that legal person by a person under its authority.
Article 61
1. Member States shall ensure that competent authorities, as well as, where applicable, self-regulatory bodies, establish effective and reliable mechanisms to encourage the reporting to competent authorities, as well as, where applicable self-regulatory bodies, of potential or actual breaches of the national provisions transposing this Directive.
For that purpose, they shall provide one or more secure communication channels for persons for the reporting referred to in the first subparagraph. Such channels shall ensure that the identity of persons providing information is known only to the competent authorities, as well as, where applicable, self-regulatory bodies.
2. The mechanisms referred to in paragraph 1 shall include at least:
(a) specific procedures for the receipt of reports on breaches and their
follow-up;
(b) appropriate protection for employees or persons in a comparable
position, of obliged entities who report breaches committed within the obliged entity;
(c) appropriate protection for the accused person;
(d) protection of personal data concerning both the person who reports
the breaches and the natural person who is allegedly responsible for a breach, in compliance with the principles laid down in Directive 95/46/EC;
(e) clear rules that ensure that confidentiality is guaranteed in all cases
in relation to the person who reports the breaches committed within the obliged entity, unless disclosure is required by national law in the context of further investigations or subsequent judicial proceedings.
3. Member States shall require obliged entities to have in place appropriate procedures for their employees, or persons in a comparable position, to report breaches internally through a specific, independent and anonymous channel, proportionate to the nature and size of the obliged entity concerned.
Member States shall ensure that individuals, including employees and representatives of the obliged entity who report suspicions of money laundering or terrorist financing internally or to the FIU, are legally protected from being exposed to threats, retaliatory or hostile action, and in particular from adverse or discriminatory employment actions.
Member States shall ensure that individuals who are exposed to threats, hostile actions, or adverse or discriminatory employment actions for reporting suspicions of money laundering or terrorist financing internally or to the FIU are entitled to present a complaint in a safe manner to the respective competent authorities. Without prejudice to the confidentiality of information gathered by the FIU, Member States shall also ensure that such individuals have the right to effective remedy to safeguard their rights under this paragraph.
Article 62
1. Member States shall ensure that their competent authorities inform EBA of all administrative sanctions and measures imposed in accordance with Articles 58 and 59 on credit institutions and financial institutions, including of any appeal in relation thereto and the outcome thereof.
2. Member States shall ensure that their competent authorities, in accordance with their national law, check the existence of a relevant conviction in the criminal record of the person concerned. Any exchange of information for those purposes shall be carried out in accordance with Decision 2009/316/JHA and Framework Decision 2009/315/JHA as implemented in national law.
3. EBA shall maintain a website with links to each competent authority’s publication of administrative sanctions and measures imposed in accordance with Article 60 on credit institutions and financial institutions, and shall show the time period for which each Member State publishes administrative sanctions and measures.
CHAPTER VII
FINAL PROVISIONS
Article 63
Point (d) of paragraph 2 of Article 25 of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and the Council ( 1 ) is replaced by the following:
( 1 ) Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council
of 4 July 2012 on OTC derivatives, central counterparties and trade reposi­ tories (OJ L 201, 27.7.2012, p. 1).
‘(d) the CCP is established or authorised in a third country that is
not considered, by the Commission in accordance with Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council (*), as having strategic deficiencies in its national anti-money laundering and counter financing of terrorism regime that poses significant threats to the financial system of the Union.
___________ (*) Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 20 May 2015 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing, amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council, and repealing Directive 2005/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Directive 2006/70/EC (OJ L 141, 5.6.2015, p. 73).’.
Article 64
1. The power to adopt delegated acts is conferred on the Commission subject to the conditions laid down in this Article.
2. The power to adopt delegated acts referred to in Article 9 shall be conferred on the Commission for an indeterminate period of time from 25 June 2015.
3. The power to adopt delegated acts referred to in Article 9 may be revoked at any time by the European Parliament or by the Council. A decision to revoke shall put an end to the delegation of the power specified in that decision. It shall take effect on the day following the publication of the decision in the Official Journal of the European Union or at a later date specified therein. It shall not affect the validity of any delegated acts already in force.
4. As soon as it adopts a delegated act, the Commission shall notify it simultaneously to the European Parliament and to the Council.
5. A delegated act adopted pursuant to Article 9 shall enter into force only if no objection has been expressed either by the European Parliament or the Council within a period of one month of notification of that act to the European Parliament and the Council or if, before the expiry of that period, the European Parliament and the Council have both informed the Commission that they will not object. That period shall be extended by one month at the initiative of the European Parliament or of the Council.
Article 64a
1. The Commission shall be assisted by the Committee on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing (the ‘Committee’) as referred to in Article 23 of Regulation (EU) 2015/847 of the European Parliament and of the Council ( 1 ). That committee shall be a committee within the meaning of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 ( 2 ).
( 1 ) Regulation (EU) 2015/847 of the European Parliament and of the Council of
20 May 2015 on information accompanying transfers of funds and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1781/2006 (OJ L 141, 5.6.2015, p. 1). ( 2 ) Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council
of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by the Member States of the Commission’s exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13).
2. Where reference is made to this paragraph, Article 5 of Regu­ lation (EU) No 182/2011 shall apply.
Article 65
1. By 11 January 2022, and every three years thereafter, the Commission shall draw up a report on the implementation of this Directive and submit it to the European Parliament and to the Council.
That report shall include in particular:
(a) an account of specific measures adopted and mechanisms set up at
Union and Member State level to prevent and address emerging problems and new developments presenting a threat to the Union financial system;
(b) follow-up actions undertaken at Union and Member State level on
the basis of concerns brought to their attention, including complaints relating to national laws hampering the supervisory and investigative powers of competent authorities and self-regulatory bodies;
(c) an account of the availability of relevant information for the
competent authorities and FIUs of the Member States, for the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering and terrorist financing;
(d) an account of the international cooperation and information
exchange between competent authorities and FIUs;
(e) an account of necessary Commission actions to verify that Member
States take action in compliance with this Directive and to assess emerging problems and new developments in the Member States;
(f) an analysis of feasibility of specific measures and mechanisms at
Union and Member State level on the possibilities to collect and access the beneficial ownership information of corporate and other legal entities incorporated outside of the Union and of the propor­ tionality of the measures referred to in point (b) of Article 20;
(g) an evaluation of how fundamental rights and principles recognised
by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union have been respected.
The first report, to be published by 11 January 2022, shall be accom­ panied, if necessary, by appropriate legislative proposals, including, where appropriate, with respect to virtual currencies, empowerments to set-up and maintain a central database registering users’ identities and wallet addresses accessible to FIUs, as well as self-declaration forms for the use of virtual currency users, and to improve cooperation between Asset Recovery Offices of the Member States and a risk-based application of the measures referred to in point (b) of Article 20.
2. By 1 June 2019, the Commission shall assess the framework for FIUs’ cooperation with third countries and obstacles and opportunities to enhance cooperation between FIUs in the Union including the possi­ bility of establishing a coordination and support mechanism.
3. The Commission shall, if appropriate, issue a report to the European Parliament and to Council to assess the need and propor­ tionality of lowering the percentage for the identification of beneficial ownership of legal entities in light of any recommendation issued in this sense by international organisations and standard setters with competence in the field of preventing money laundering and combating terrorist financing as a result of a new assessment, and present a legislative proposal, if appropriate.
Article 66
Directives 2005/60/EC and 2006/70/EC are repealed with effect from 26 June 2017.
References to the repealed Directives shall be construed as references to this Directive and shall be read in accordance with the correlation table set out in Annex IV.
Article 67
1. Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive by 26 June 2017.
Member States shall apply Article 12(3) as of 10 July 2020.
Member States shall set up the registers referred to in Article 30 by 10 January 2020 and the registers referred to in Article 31 by 10 March 2020 and the centralised automated mechanisms referred to in Article 32a by 10 September 2020.
The Commission shall ensure the interconnection of registers referred to in Articles 30 and 31 in cooperation with the Member States by 10 March 2021.
Member States shall immediately communicate the text of the measures referred to in this paragraph to the Commission.
When Member States adopt those measures, they shall contain a reference to this Directive or be accompanied by such a reference on the occasion of their official publication. The methods of making such reference shall be laid down by Member States.
2. Member States shall communicate to the Commission the text of the main provisions of national law which they adopt in the field covered by this Directive.
3. Member States shall adopt and publish, by 30 December 2024, the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with Article 2(1), point 3, Article 3, point (2)(g), Article 3, points (8), (18), (19) and (20), Article 19a(1), Article 19b(1) and (2), Article 45(9) and Article 47(1). They shall immediately communicate the text of those measures to the Commission.
They shall apply those measures from 30 December 2024.
Article 68
This Directive shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Article 69
This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
ANNEX I
The following is a non-exhaustive list of risk variables that obliged entities shall consider when determining to what extent to apply customer due diligence measures in accordance with Article 13(3):
(i) the purpose of an account or relationship;
(ii) the level of assets to be deposited by a customer or the size of transactions
undertaken;
(iii) the regularity or duration of the business relationship.
ANNEX II
The following is a non-exhaustive list of factors and types of evidence of potentially lower risk referred to in Article 16:
(1) Customer risk factors:
(a) public companies listed on a stock exchange and subject to disclosure
requirements (either by stock exchange rules or through law or enforceable means), which impose requirements to ensure adequate trans­ parency of beneficial ownership;
(b) public administrations or enterprises;
(c) customers that are resident in geographical areas of lower risk as set out
in point (3);
(2) Product, service, transaction or delivery channel risk factors:
(a) life insurance policies for which the premium is low;
(b) insurance policies for pension schemes if there is no early surrender
option and the policy cannot be used as collateral;
(c) a pension, superannuation or similar scheme that provides retirement
benefits to employees, where contributions are made by way of deduction from wages, and the scheme rules do not permit the assignment of a member's interest under the scheme;
(d) financial products or services that provide appropriately defined and
limited services to certain types of customers, so as to increase access for financial inclusion purposes;
(e) products where the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing are
managed by other factors such as purse limits or transparency of ownership (e.g. certain types of electronic money);
(3) Geographical risk factors — registration, establishment, residence in:
(a) Member States;
(b) third countries having effective AML/CFT systems;
(c) third countries identified by credible sources as having a low level of
corruption or other criminal activity;
(d) third countries which, on the basis of credible sources such as mutual
evaluations, detailed assessment reports or published follow-up reports, have requirements to combat money laundering and terrorist financing consistent with the revised FATF Recommendations and effectively implement those requirements.
ANNEX III
The following is a non-exhaustive list of factors and types of evidence of potentially higher risk referred to in Article 18(3):
(1) Customer risk factors:
(a) the business relationship is conducted in unusual circumstances;
(b) customers that are resident in geographical areas of higher risk as set out
in point (3);
(c) legal persons or arrangements that are personal asset-holding vehicles;
(d) companies that have nominee shareholders or shares in bearer form;
(e) businesses that are cash-intensive;
(f) the ownership structure of the company appears unusual or excessively
complex given the nature of the company's business;
(g) customer is a third country national who applies for residence rights or
citizenship in the Member State in exchange of capital transfers, purchase of property or government bonds, or investment in corporate entities in that Member State.
(2) Product, service, transaction or delivery channel risk factors:
(a) private banking;
(b) products or transactions that might favour anonymity;
(c) non-face-to-face business relationships or transactions, without certain
safeguards, such as electronic identification means, relevant trust services as defined in Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 or any other secure, remote or electronic, identification process regulated, recognised, approved or accepted by the relevant national authorities;
(d) payment received from unknown or unassociated third parties;
(e) new products and new business practices, including new delivery
mechanism, and the use of new or developing technologies for both new and pre-existing products;
(f) transactions related to oil, arms, precious metals, tobacco products, cultural
artefacts and other items of archaeological, historical, cultural and religious importance, or of rare scientific value, as well as ivory and protected species.
(3) Geographical risk factors:
(a) without prejudice to Article 9, countries identified by credible sources,
such as mutual evaluations, detailed assessment reports or published follow-up reports, as not having effective AML/CFT systems;
(b) countries identified by credible sources as having significant levels of
corruption or other criminal activity;
(c) countries subject to sanctions, embargos or similar measures issued by,
for example, the Union or the United Nations;
(d) countries providing funding or support for terrorist activities, or that have
designated terrorist organisations operating within their country.
ANNEX IV
Correlation table
This Directive Directive 2005/60/EC Directive 2006/70/EC
— Article 1
— Article 3
— Article 5
— Article 6
— Article 7
Article 1 Article 1
Article 2 Article 2
Article 2(3) to (9) Article 4
Article 3 Article 3
Article 3(9), (10) and (11) Article 2(1), (2) and (3)
Article 4 Article 4
Article 5 Article 5
Articles 6 to 8 —
Article 10 Article 6
Article 11 Article 7
Article 13 Article 8
Article 14 Article 9
Article 11(d) Article 10(1)
— Article 10(2)
Articles 15, 16 and 17 Article 11
— Article 12
Articles 18 to 24 Article 13
Article 22 Article 2(4)
Article 25 Article 14
— Article 15
Article 26 Article 16
— Article 17
Article 27 Article 18
Article 28 —
Article 29 Article 19
Article 30 —
Article 31 —
— Article 20
This Directive Directive 2005/60/EC Directive 2006/70/EC
Article 32 Article 21
Article 33 Article 22
Article 34 Article 23
Article 35 Article 24
Article 36 Article 25
Article 37 Article 26
Article 38 Article 27
Article 39 Article 28
— Article 29
Article 40 Article 30
Article 45 Article 31
Article 42 Article 32
Article 44 Article 33
Article 45 Article 34
Article 46 Article 35
Article 47 Article 36
Article 48 Article 37
Article 49 —
Article 50 Article 37a
Article 51 Article 38
Articles 52 to 57 —
Articles 58 to 61 Article 39
— Article 40
— Article 41
— Article 41a
— Article 41b
Article 65 Article 42
— Article 43
Article 66 Article 44
Article 67 Article 45
Article 68 Article 46
Article 69 Article 47
